Aerospace Studies         141
Aerospace Studies
Program advisers: Lester Oberg (lester.oberg@yale.edu) and Nathan Luchini
(nathan.luchini@yale.edu); airforce@yale.edu; afrotc.yalecollege.yale.edu
Aerospace Studies is the academic component of the Yale Air Force Reserve Oﬃcer 
Training Corps (AFROTC) Detachment 009. Typically, students pursue the Aerospace 
Studies curriculum in tandem with AFROTC program requirements, including military 
leadership preparation and physical training. After completing all Air Force ROTC 
requirements and Yale College academic degree requirements, cadets commission as 
oﬃcers into the Air Force or Space Force upon graduation from Yale College, serving 
in a variety of military specialties such as aviation, intelligence, logistics, and medicine. 
The Aerospace Studies program and the AFROTC prepare students to excel as Air Force 
and Space Force leaders and to operate eﬀectively in a dynamic military environment.
For additional information about Yale’s Air Force Reserve Oﬃcers Training Corps 
program, visit the program website.
Courses for Nonmajors
Enrollment in Aerospace Studies courses is not limited to cadets; courses are open to 
any Yale student.
Academic Requirements 
The Aerospace Studies core curriculum introduces topics such as the profession of 
arms, military history, military communication, national security, and the philosophy 
of warfare. The Department of Aerospace Studies presents this content in the context 
of military leadership to prepare students for active duty service. Most Aerospace 
Studies courses count for enrollment credit only; they do not count toward the thirty-
six course credits required for the Yale bachelor's degree. USAF 2014, USAF 4011, and
USAF 4014 do count toward graduation credit.
Students in the AFROTC program must successfully complete eight USAF courses 
total, typically taking one course per semester, in addition to the requirements 
of their Yale College major. The Department of Aerospace Studies oﬀers these 
courses: USAF 1001, 1002, 2001, 2002, 3001, 3002, 4001, 4002, 4011, and 4014. When 
the Department of History oﬀers HIST 1221, Military History of the West since 1500, 
cadets may use it to fulﬁll the one term of the 2000-level AFROTC requirement 
(USAF 2002) and also count it toward the bachelor’s degree. Cadets become involved 
in the management of their own cadet wing through a mandatory two-hour leadership 
laboratory each week.
Credit/D/Fail/uni2002No course taken Credit/D/Fail may be counted toward the program in 
Aerospace Studies.
FACULTY ASSOCIATED WITH THE PROGRAM OF AEROSPACE STUDIES
Lecturers/uni2002Colonel Lester Oberg, USAF, Major Nathan Luchini, USAF
ROTC Training Instructor/uni2002Technical Sergeant Christopher Goad, USAF/uni2002