142            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
African American Studies
Director of undergraduate studies: Elizabeth Hinton
(elizabeth.hinton@yale.edu); afamstudies.yale.edu
The African American Studies major examines, from numerous disciplinary 
perspectives, questions of race, culture, and modern struggles for equality centering 
on the experiences of people of African descent in Black Atlantic societies including 
the United States, the Caribbean, Latin America, Europe, and Africa, and the global 
impact of those experiences. Students in the department explore the historical, cultural, 
political, economic, and social development of Black Atlantic societies. Majors work to 
become informed thinkers who are intellectually prepared to oﬀer clarity and insight 
to ongoing academic and public debates centered in questions concerning race and 
inequality.
African American Studies majors become knowledgeable about the history, primary 
methodologies, and interdisciplinary breadth of the ﬁeld. Students learn to critique, 
articulate, analyze, and interpret universal themes concerning both individuals in 
society and group interactions as they relate to the work of scholars, scientists, writers, 
artists, musicians, economists, and entrepreneurs.
Requirements of the Major 
African American Studies can be taken either as a stand-alone major or as one of two 
majors in consultation with the director of undergraduate studies (DUS). Pertinent 
regulations can be found in Academic Regulations, section L, Special Academic 
Arrangements, "Two Majors."
The major in African American Studies requires twelve term courses, including seven 
core courses and ﬁve electives in a focus area. The seven core courses include the African 
American history sequence AFAM 1160 and AFAM 1162, which can be taken in either 
order; one humanities course in African American literature; one course in the social 
sciences relevant to African American studies; the junior seminar (AFAM 4310); the 
senior colloquium (AFAM 4380) and senior essay (AFAM 4391).
Area of focus/uni2002Students majoring in African American Studies are required to choose an 
area of focus comprised of ﬁve courses. This cluster of interrelated courses is intended 
to ground the student's learning experience in one area of investigation. Often students 
choose an area of focus in a traditional discipline such as political science, art history, 
economics, sociology, American studies, history, or English language and literature. 
Students can also construct interdisciplinary areas of focus that span traditional 
departments and encompass broader theoretical frameworks such as race and ethnicity, 
cultural studies, black arts, or feminism and gender studies. All majors are encouraged 
to take upper-level courses as part of their focus, especially those courses centering on 
research and methodology. None of the seven core courses may be counted among the 
required electives in the area of focus.
Junior seminar/uni2002In their junior year students must take the junior seminar, AFAM 4310. 
This course provides majors with theoretical and methodological bases for the work 
they will do during their research-oriented senior year.African American Studies         143
Credit/D/Fail/uni2002No more than one course taken Credit/D/Fail may be applied toward 
the requirements of the major.
Outside credit Courses taken at another institution or during an approved summer or 
term-time study abroad program may count toward the major requirements with DUS 
approval.
Senior Requirement 
Senior majors participate in a colloquium in AFAM 4380 that provides them an 
opportunity to exchange ideas with each other and with more advanced scholars. 
Students in AFAM 4380 submit a prospectus, compile a working bibliography, begin or 
continue research, and write the ﬁrst twenty pages of the senior essay. After completing 
the colloquium, each student carries out the remaining research and writing of a senior 
essay in AFAM 4391 under the guidance of a faculty member in the chosen discipline or 
area of focus.
Students are strongly encouraged to use the summer between the junior and senior 
years for research directly related to the senior essay. For example, ﬁeld or documentary 
research might be undertaken in urban or rural communities in America and 
throughout the diaspora. The particular research topic and design are to be worked out 
in each case with a faculty adviser.
Advising
Students considering a program of study in African American Studies should consult 
the DUS as early as possible. Areas of focus and schedules for majors must be approved 
by the DUS.
Two majors The requirements for double majoring often depend on the other 
department or discipline in which the student is planning to major. Students interested 
in double majoring should initially make an appointment with the DUS in African 
American Studies to discuss their plans and the courses they have already taken toward 
the African American Studies major. The student should, then, plan a meeting with 
both the DUS in African American Studies as well as the DUS in the other department 
to ensure clarity on the requirements for both departments. During this meeting, the 
student may explore the possibility of writing a joint thesis instead of two separate 
theses.
Graduate work/uni2002African American Studies oﬀers training of special interest to those 
considering admission to graduate or professional schools and careers in education, 
journalism, law, the arts, business management, city planning, international relations, 
politics, psychology, publishing, public health, or social work. The interdisciplinary 
structure of the department oﬀers students an opportunity to satisfy the increasingly 
rigorous expectations of admissions committees and prospective employers.
Study Abroad□
A limited number of courses taken during sophomore or junior semesters abroad can be 
counted toward the major with DUS approval.
SUMMARY OF MAJOR REQUIREMENTS
Prerequisites/uni2002None144            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
Number of courses/uni200212 term courses, incl 7 core courses (incl sen req), and 5 electives in 
a focus area
Speciﬁc courses required/uni2002AFAM 1160, 1162, 4310
Distribution of courses/uni2002 1 humanities course in AFAM lit and 1 relevant social science 
course, both approved by DUS; 5 courses in focus area
Senior requirement/uni2002Senior colloquium (AFAM 4380) and senior essay (AFAM 4391)
FACULTY OF THE DEPARTMENT OF AFRICAN AMERICAN STUDIES
Professors/uni2002Elijah Anderson, David Blight, Daphne Brooks, Hazel Carby (Emeritus), 
Marlene Daut, Erica Edwards, Roderick Ferguson, Kaiama Glover, Phillip Atiba 
Solomon, Jacqueline Goldsby, Elizabeth Hinton, Matthew Jacobson, Gerald Jaynes, 
Tavia Nyong'o, Edward Rugemer, Robert Stepto (Emeritus), Michael Veal, Shane Vogel
Associate Professor/uni2002Crystal Feimster
Assistant Professors/uni2002Na Na Adusei-Poku, Allison Harris, Jonathan Howard, Elleza 
Kelley, Ernest Mitchell, Carolyn Roberts
Lecturers/uni2002Thomas Allen Harris, Tasha Hawthorne, Ferentz Lafargue, Sarah Mahurin