African Studies         145
African Studies
Director of undergraduate studies: Veronica Waweru (veronica.waweru@yale.edu), 
115 Prospect St., Room 148; director of the program in African Languages: Kiarie 
Wa'Njogu (john.wanjogu@yale.edu), 115 Prospect St., Room 138, 432-0110;
www.yale.edu/macmillan/african
The program in African Studies enables students to undertake interdisciplinary study 
of the arts, history, cultures, politics, and development of Africa. As a foundation, 
students in the program gain cross-disciplinary exposure to Africa. In the junior and 
senior years, students develop analytical ability and focus their studies on research 
in a particular discipline such as anthropology, art history, history, languages and 
literature, political science, or sociology, or on topics such as global health, economic 
development, or human rights.
African Studies provides training of special interest to those considering admission to 
graduate or professional schools or careers in education, journalism, law, management, 
medicine, politics, psychology, international relations, creative writing, or social work. 
The interdisciplinary structure of the program oﬀers students an opportunity to satisfy 
the increasingly rigorous expectations of admissions committees and prospective 
employers for a broad liberal arts perspective that complements specialized knowledge 
of a ﬁeld.
Requirements of the Major
The African Studies program consists of twelve term courses, including (1) one 
African Studies course in the humanities and one in the social sciences; (2) two years 
of an African language (Arabic, Kiswahili, Twi, Wolof, Yorùbá, isiZulu, or others 
with permission of the director of undergraduate studies (DUS), unless waived by 
examination); (3) one research methods course, AFST 5505 or an alternative course 
that either serves to deepen the area of focus or provide methodological tools for the 
senior essay, selected in consultation with the DUS; (4) four courses in an area of 
focus, such as anthropology, art history, history, languages and literature, political 
science, or sociology, or in an interdisciplinary program such as African American 
Studies; Ethnicity, Race, and Migration; or Women’s, Gender, and Sexuality Studies; 
or in a cross-disciplinary area such as diaspora studies or development studies; and 
(5) AFST 4491, the senior essay. The required courses represent the core of the program 
and are intended to expose the student both to the interdisciplinary nature of African 
studies and to the methodologies currently being brought to bear on the study of 
African cultures and societies. Students who wish to pursue an area of focus not listed 
here should consult the DUS ﬁrst.
Language requirement/uni2002African Studies majors are required to complete two years of 
college-level study (or the equivalent) of an African language, and they are encouraged 
to continue beyond this level. For the language requirement to be waived, a student 
must pass a placement test for admission into an advanced-level course or, for 
languages not regularly oﬀered at Yale, an equivalent test of speaking, listening, 
reading, and writing skills administered through the Center for Language Study. 
Students should begin their language study as early as possible. If the requirement is 146            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
waived, students must substitute other African Studies courses for the four required 
language courses.
With permission of the DUS, students may count courses in an additional language, 
such as French or Portuguese, toward the major requirements. Students are encouraged 
to include upper-level courses, especially those centering on research and methodology.
Program in African languages/uni2002The language program oﬀers instruction in ﬁve 
major languages from sub-Saharan Africa: Kiswahili (eastern and central Africa), 
Twi (western Africa), Wolof (western Africa), Yorùbá (western Africa), and isiZulu 
(southern Africa). African language courses emphasize communicative competence, 
using multimedia materials that focus on the contemporary African context. Course 
sequences are designed to enable students to achieve advanced competence in all skill 
areas by the end of the third year, and students are encouraged to spend a summer or 
term in Africa during their language study.
Courses in Arabic are oﬀered through the Department of Near Eastern Languages 
and Civilizations. Noncredit instruction in other African languages is available by 
application through the Directed Independent Language Study program at the Center 
for Language Study. Contact the director of the Program in African Languages
(john.wanjogu@yale.edu) for information.
Credit/D/Fail/uni2002No more than one course taken for Credit/D/Fail may be applied 
toward the requirements of the major.
Outside credit Courses taken at another institution or during an approved summer or 
term-time study abroad program may count toward the major requirements with DUS 
approval.
Senior Requirement 
Students are required to complete a senior essay in AFST 4491, working under the 
guidance of a faculty adviser. With prior approval by the DUS, a combined senior essay 
may be submitted for those pursuing a second major.
A preliminary statement indicating the topic to be addressed and the name of the 
faculty adviser must be submitted to the DUS by the end of the second week of the fall 
term in the senior year.
Advising
Students planning to major in African Studies should consult the DUS as early as 
possible.
Graduate work, M.A. program/uni2002Students in Yale College are eligible to complete the 
M.A. in African Studies in one year of graduate work if they begin the program in the 
third and fourth undergraduate years. Students interested in this option must complete 
eight graduate courses in the area by the time of the completion of the bachelor’s 
degree. Only two courses may be counted toward both graduate and undergraduate 
degrees. Successful completion of graduate courses while still an undergraduate does 
not guarantee admission into the M.A. program.African Studies         147
SUMMARY OF MAJOR REQUIREMENTS
Prerequisites/uni2002None
Number of courses/uni200212 term courses (incl senior req)
Distribution of courses /uni20021 AFST course in humanities and 1 in social sciences; 2 years of 
African lang; 4 courses and 1 research methods course in focus area
Substitution permitted/uni2002if language req is waived, 4 addtl African Studies courses
Senior requirement/uni2002Senior essay (AFST 4491)
certiﬁcates of Advanced Language Study
The Department of African Studies oﬀers a Certiﬁcate of Advanced Language Study 
in three major African languages–Kiswahili, Yoruba, and isiZulu, and students 
may pursue a Certiﬁcate of Advanced Language Study in each of these languages. A 
certiﬁcate adviser, typically the director of undergraduate studies (DUS), advises 
students on the certiﬁcation process and certiﬁes to the University Registrar's Oﬃce 
that students have completed the stated requirements before the end of eight terms 
of study. The Certiﬁcate of Advanced Language Study, once certiﬁed, is listed on the 
student's transcript.
Requirements
Students seeking to earn the certiﬁcate are required to take four courses beyond the L4 
level in their chosen language, at least two of which must be Yale courses designated as 
L5. All courses must be taken for a letter grade, and students must achieve a grade of B 
or above. With the approval of the adviser, one advanced non-L5 Yale course, conducted 
in the target language, such as an independent study course (graded pass/fail), a 
graduate seminar, or an advanced seminar may count toward certiﬁcation requirements.
The certiﬁcate adviser may allow one “language across the curriculum” (LxC) course 
taught in English to count toward the certiﬁcation requirements provided the course 
includes at minimum a weekly discussion section conducted entirely in 
the target language. The discussion section must enroll a minimum of three students 
and the course must be designated as LxC in the course description.
The certiﬁcate adviser may also approve the substitution of up to two credits earned 
during study abroad and taught in the target language to count toward the certiﬁcate 
requirements. If the adviser approves courses taken outside of Yale for inclusion in the 
certiﬁcate requirements, students must take the necessary steps to ensure that those 
courses appear on their transcripts.
Declaration of Candidacy
Students must declare their intention to earn a Certiﬁcate on the Declare Major, 
Concentration within the Major, Certiﬁcate page on Yale Hub, as early as possible, but 
at the very latest, by the 15th of January or September in their last semester at 
Yale. Once declared, Degree Audit tracks students' progress toward completion 
of the certiﬁcate.148            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
FACULTY ASSOCIATED WITH THE PROGRAM OF AFRICAN STUDIES
Professors/uni2002Lea Brilmayer (Law School), John Darnell (Near Eastern Languages & 
Civilizations ), Owen Fiss (Law School), Robert Harms (History), Daniel Magaziner 
(History), Roderick McIntosh (Anthropology), Christopher Miller (African American 
Studies, French), Catherine Panter-Brick (Anthropology), Jeremy Seekings (Global 
Aﬀairs) (Visiting), Ian Shapiro (Political Science), Robert Thompson (Emeritus), 
Michael Veal (Music), David Watts (Anthropology), Elisabeth Wood (Political Science)
Associate Professors/uni2002Robert Bailis (School of the Environment), Jonathan Wyrtzen 
(Sociology)
Assistant Professors/uni2002Katharine Baldwin (Political Science), Louisa 
Lombard (Anthropology) 
Lecturers/uni2002Lacina Coulibaly (Theater Studies), Anne-Marie Foltz (Public Health), David 
Simon (Political Science)
Senior Lectors II/uni2002Sandra Sanneh, Kiarie Wa'Njogu
Senior Lectors/uni2002Oluseye Adesola, Matuku Ngame