American Studies         149
American Studies
Director of undergraduate studies: Laura Wexler (laura.wexler@yale.edu), 314 WLH, 
432-1524; americanstudies.yale.edu
The American Studies program encourages the interdisciplinary study of the cultures 
and politics of the United States, the changing representations of national identity, 
and the construction of borderland and diasporic cultures over time. Each student 
in the major combines courses in American Studies with courses from other relevant 
disciplines (literature, history, the arts, and the social sciences) to explore these broad 
topics from local, national, and global perspectives. Through the selection of curated 
courses, each student develops a focus for coursework in the major. The program 
encourages scholarly work in nontraditional combinations of disciplines; at the same 
time, however, it assumes and requires a substantial foundation of knowledge in 
the history and culture of the United States. Students interested in the major are 
encouraged to consult with the director of undergraduate studies (DUS) as early as 
possible.
Requirements of the Major
See Links to the attributes indicating courses approved for the American Studies major 
requirements.
All students majoring in American Studies must take fourteen-term courses approved 
by the program’s faculty. Although a good deal of freedom in course selection is 
permitted, it is expected that all students will acquaint themselves with the materials, 
skills, and perspectives of cultural studies. Accordingly, the major requires completion
—preferably by the end of the sophomore year, but no later than the end of the junior 
year—of at least four gateway courses (AMST 1000–2999), including two in cultural 
history/cultural studies, one broad survey course in American literature, and one 
preparatory course for work in the student's area of concentration, to be selected in 
consultation with the DUS. One of these four courses must be listed as an “Early 
Americas” course on the  American Studies website and indicated as such on Yale Course 
Search. Students may, with DUS permission, substitute a First-Year Seminar for a 
gateway course. An additional ﬁve concentration courses from diverse disciplines must 
be taken for a letter grade, one of which must incorporate a comparable topic from a 
non-U.S. perspective. Two electives chosen from the American Studies course oﬀerings 
are also required.
Students must take two junior seminars (AMST 3000–3999) during their junior 
year. At least one of the seminars must fall within the student’s area of concentration, 
described below. In each of the seminars, students are expected to demonstrate 
proﬁciency in interdisciplinary research and analysis through the production of critical 
essays on primary source materials or a paper of ﬁfteen to twenty pages. Sophomores 
contemplating a junior term abroad are urged to take one of the junior seminars in the 
spring term of their sophomore year.
Areas of concentration/uni2002Each American Studies major selects an area of concentration, 
normally in the fall of the junior year, from six possible choices: (1) national 
formations, (2) the international United States, (3) material cultures and built 
environments, (4) politics and American communities, (5) visual, audio, literary, 150            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
and performance cultures, and (6) public humanities. The concentration in national 
formations explores historic migrations, settlements, and encounters among peoples 
who have formed the American nation, with an emphasis on Native American history 
and the construction of America’s frontiers and borderlands. The international United 
States concentration focuses on historic and contemporary diasporas, the role of 
the United States outside its national borders, and the ﬂows of American peoples, 
ideas, and goods throughout the globe. Students in the material cultures and built 
environments concentration examine the formation of the American landscape from the 
natural to the human-made, including the development of American architecture and 
the visual and decorative arts. The concentration in politics and American communities 
investigates the emergence of social groups and their political struggles at the local 
and national levels, emphasizing the themes of power, inequality, and social justice. 
Majors with a concentration in visual, audio, literary, and performance cultures study 
American consumer culture, popular culture, representations, and media in relation 
to U.S. literatures. Students in the public humanities concentration explore various 
forms of public intellectual engagement, including museum studies, documentary 
work, public history, digital humanities, and archival based work in the visual or 
performing arts; senior projects in this area may consist of works or productions 
beyond the traditional scholarly essay. Students may also petition the DUS to develop 
an independent concentration.
Credit/D/Fail/uni2002No more than two courses taken Credit/D/Fail may be applied toward 
the requirements of the major.
Outside credit Courses taken at another institution or during an approved summer or 
term-time study abroad program may count toward the major requirements with DUS 
approval.
Senior Requirement 
During the senior year, each student in the major completes work in the area of 
concentration in one of three ways. First, the student may enroll in a senior seminar 
within the area of concentration (AMST 4000–4999). Students should apply 
interdisciplinary methods and undertake original research to produce a ﬁnal paper of 
twenty to twenty-ﬁve pages. Students must complete all course requirements to fulﬁll 
the senior requirement. Students electing this option should submit the senior seminar 
registration form, signed by the seminar instructor, to the DUS and the undergraduate 
registrar.
Second, the student may complete a one-term senior project or essay (AMST 4491). 
The product should be a thirty-page essay or its equivalent in another medium. To 
apply for admission to AMST 4491, a student should submit a prospectus, signed by 
the faculty adviser, to the DUS and the undergraduate registrar.
Third, the student may enroll in the intensive major (AMST 4493 and 4494) and work 
independently for two terms. The intensive major oﬀers an opportunity for signiﬁcant 
original research leading to a substantial senior project. AMST 4493, 4494 carries 
two terms of credit; its ﬁnal product should be a sixty-page essay or its equivalent 
in another medium. All students in the intensive major participate in a yearlong 
proseminar on theory and methods. One term of the two-term project may count as a 
course in the area of concentration. To apply for admission to AMST 4493 and 4494, a American Studies         151
student should submit a prospectus, signed by the faculty adviser, to the DUS and the 
undergraduate registrar.
As a multidisciplinary program, American Studies draws on the resources of other 
departments and programs in the University. The list of American Studies courses 
is meant to be suggestive only: apart from those courses required for the major, it is 
neither restrictive nor exhaustive. Students are encouraged to examine the oﬀerings of 
other departments in both the humanities and the social sciences, as well as Residential 
College Seminars, for additional relevant courses. The stated area of concentration of 
each student determines the relevance and acceptability of other courses.
Advising
Combined B.A./M.A. degree program/uni2002Exceptionally able and well-prepared students 
may complete a course of study leading to the simultaneous award of the B.A. and 
M.A. degrees after eight terms of enrollment. See Academic Regulations, section L, 
Special Academic Arrangements, “Simultaneous Award of the Bachelor's and Master's 
Degrees.” Interested students should consult the DUS prior to the sixth term of 
enrollment for speciﬁc requirements in American Studies.
SUMMARY OF MAJOR REQUIREMENTS
Prerequisites/uni2002None
Number of courses/uni200214 term courses (incl senior req)
Distribution of courses /uni20024 gateway courses, as speciﬁed; 2 junior sems, 1 in area of 
concentration; 5 courses in area of concentration for letter grades, 1 on a related non-
U.S. topic (1 may be one term of two-term senior project); 2 AMST electives
Substitution permitted/uni20021 ﬁrst-year sem for 1 gateway course; others with DUS 
permission
Senior requirement/uni2002Senior sem (AMST 4000–4999) or one-term senior project 
(AMST 4491) related to area of concentration
Intensive major Same, except two-term senior project (AMST 4493 and 4494) is 
required
FACULTY ASSOCIATED WITH THE PROGRAM OF AMERICAN STUDIES
Professors/uni2002Ned Blackhawk (History), David Blight (History, African American 
Studies), Daphne Brooks ( African American Studies, Women's, Gender, & Sexuality 
Studies, Music), Alicia Schmidt Camacho ( Ethnicity, Race, & Migration), Michael 
Denning (English, Ethnicity, Race, & Migration), Kathryn Dudley (Anthropology), 
Roderick Ferguson (Women's, Gender, & Sexuality Studies), Joanne Freeman (History), 
Beverly Gage (History), Jacqueline Goldsby (English, African American Studies), Scott 
Herring (Women's, Gender, & Sexuality Studies), Daniel HoSang (Ethnicity, Race, & 
Migration), Matthew Jacobson (African American Studies, History), Regina Kunzel
(History, Women's, Gender, & Sexuality Studies), Kathryn Lofton (Religious Studies, 
History & Divinity, FAS Dean of Humanities), Lisa Lowe (Director of Postdoctoral 
Opportunities ) (Ethnicity, Race, & Migration), Mary Lui (Head of Timothy Dwight College) 
(History), Joanne Meyerowitz (History), Charles Musser (Film & Media Studies, Theater 
Studies), Tavia Nyong'o (Theater & Performance Studies, African American Studies), 
Gary Okihiro (Ethnicity, Race, & Migration), Stephen Pitti (Head of Ezra Stiles College) 152            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
(History, Ethnicity, Race, & Migration), Sally Promey (Institute of Sacred Music, Divinity 
School, Religious Studies, History of Art), Ana Ramos-Zayas (Ethnicity, Race, & Migration, 
Women's, Gender & Sexuality Studies), Marc Robinson (Theater & Performance Studies, 
English), Paul Sabin (History, Environmental Studies), Caleb Smith (English), Dara 
Strolovitch (Women's, Gender, & Sexuality Studies, Political Science), Michael Veal (Music, 
African American Studies), Kalindi Vora (Ethnicity, Race, & Migration, Women's, Gender, 
& Sexuality Studies), John Warner (History of Science, Medicine, and Public Health, 
History), Michael Warner (English), Laura Wexler (DUS) (Women’s, Gender, & Sexuality 
Studies), Bryan Wolf
Associate Professors/uni2002Rene Almeling (Sociology), Laura Barraclough (Chair) (Ethnicity, 
Race, & Migration), Crystal Feimster (Head of Pierson College) (African American Studies, 
History), Zareena Grewal (Ethnicity, Race, & Migration, Religious Studies), Greta LaFleur 
(DGS) (Women's, Gender, & Sexuality Studies), Albert Laguna (Ethnicity, Race, & 
Migration), Joanna Radin (History of Science, Medicine, and Public Health, Anthropology, 
History), Elihu Rubin (Urbanism), Edward Rugemer (African American Studies), Tisa 
Wenger (Religious Studies, History & Divinity)
Assistant Professors/uni2002Hi'ilei Hobart (Ethnicity, Race, & Migration), Julian Posada, 
Madiha Tahir
Senior Lecturers/uni2002James Berger, Karin Roﬀman (Humanities, English, Associate Director 
of Public Humanities)
Lecturers/uni2002Ryan Brasseux (Head of Davenport College), Quan Tran (Ethnicity, Race, & 
Migration), Dicky Yangzom