Anthropology         153
Anthropology
Director of undergraduate studies: Richard Bribiescas, 10 Sachem Street, Room 202, 
432-3671; anthropology.yale.edu 
Anthropology is the study of human cultural, social, and biological diversity from 
the distant past to the present day and around the world. The undergraduate major 
in Anthropology introduces students to key topics and approaches in three broad 
areas, also known as subﬁelds: (1) the evolution of human and nonhuman primates, 
including the evolutionary biology of living people; (2) the archaeological study of 
human societies and cultures; (3) social, cultural, and linguistic dimensions of human 
life. In addition to gaining a broad understanding of these complementary areas 
of Anthropology, majors develop advanced skills in one or more subﬁelds and may 
elect to pursue a formal concentration in archaeological, biological, or sociocultural 
anthropology, or in medical anthropology and global health (see Concentrations). 
Whatever their path through the major, students learn ways of understanding and 
engaging with humanity that emerge from the sciences, social sciences, and humanities, 
and they often complete synergistic coursework in other departments and programs. All 
students write a senior essay, often based on independent research, and many go on to 
careers that incorporate anthropological perspectives.
Requirements of the Major 
See Links to the attributes indicating courses approved for the Anthropology major 
requirements.
Students are required to present twelve course credits toward their major, including 
at least one introductory or intermediate (1000-2000 level) course in each of the three 
subﬁelds of anthropology, at least three advanced courses (3000-4000 level), not 
including numbers reserved for senior essay work, and a senior essay. With approval 
from the director of undergraduate studies (DUS), up to three courses may be selected 
from other departments as cognates. Cognate courses should be chosen to expand a 
student’s knowledge in one of the subﬁelds of anthropology or in an area of cross-
disciplinary concentration. For example, cognate courses for biological anthropology 
may be found in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Earth and Planetary Sciences, or 
Psychology, while cognates for sociocultural anthropology may be found in Sociology, 
Environmental Studies, Ethnicity, Race, and Migration, and Women’s, Gender, and 
Sexuality Studies. Appropriate areas of cross-disciplinary coursework also include 
area studies (e.g., African Studies), or topics such as law, health, gender and sexuality, 
environment and ecology, science and technology, race and ethnicity, and others.
Credit/D/Fail/uni2002No more than one course taken Credit/D/Fail may be applied toward 
the requirements of the major.
Outside credit Courses taken at another institution or during an approved summer or 
term-time study abroad program may count toward the major requirements with DUS 
approval. See Study Abroad.
Senior Requirement
All majors are required to complete a substantial paper during their senior year, either 
in a seminar or in ANTH 4091 . In most cases, the senior essay is a traditional written 
essay, although students may, in consultation with their adviser, propose to work in 154            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
and submit other media; such senior essays should still be accompanied by a 10-15 page 
written exposition of the work and its relationship to anthropology. There are three 
options for completing the senior essay:
Option 1: Students may write a paper in an advanced seminar. A seminar senior essay 
must be more substantial than a typical term paper, generally 20–25 pages long. It is 
evaluated by the seminar instructor and a second reader drawn from the Yale faculty. 
Students must obtain written approval for this option from the seminar instructor no 
later than the third week of the term. Students fulﬁlling the requirements of two majors 
may not apply a single seminar essay toward the senior requirement for both majors. 
The deadline for a seminar senior essay is the senior essay deadline, not the term paper 
deadline. Students choosing this option must take the seminar for which they write 
their essay in addition to  the three advanced courses required for the major. Note that 
some concentrations in Anthropology do not permit a seminar-style senior essay.
Option 2: An independent essay on a subject of the student’s choice, completed in
ANTH 4091 . A student pursuing this option must choose a topic and identify a faculty 
adviser by the end of the third week of the term in which the essay is to be written. By 
the same date, the adviser must approve a prospectus that outlines the topic, objectives, 
and methods of the essay, as well as a preliminary bibliography. The student should 
also inform the DUS of a preferred second reader by this time.
Option 3: A yearlong paper, begun in ANTH 4071  and completed in ANTH 4091 . The 
yearlong essay is designed for students who wish to pursue more extensive independent 
projects than can be completed in a single term. Students must have their project 
approved by a faculty adviser who establishes the requirements for ANTH 4071 ; 
approval is required before the student registers for ANTH 4071 , typically in the fall 
term of the senior year.
For options two and three, the adviser must have a faculty appointment in 
Anthropology, and the second reader must have a faculty appointment at Yale.
Advising
With permission of the DUS, students may apply up to two courses taken outside 
Yale as electives or cognates toward the Anthropology major. Such courses must have 
been approved for Yale College credit and may include courses taken on a year or 
term abroad or through summer study at another college or university. See Academic 
Regulations, section K, Special Academic Programs.
Graduate courses/uni2002Most graduate seminars in anthropology are open to qualiﬁed 
undergraduates. Descriptions are available in the departmental oﬃce, 10 Sachem Street. 
Permission of the instructor and of the director of graduate studies is required.
Study Abroad
Study abroad courses that are approved for Yale College and Anthropology credit may 
be used to replace one elective. If more than one such study abroad course credit is to 
be used for the major, it will come at the expense of one or more of the three cognate 
courses which may be taken in any Yale department or program with the approval of 
the DUS in Anthropology.Anthropology         155
SUMMARY OF MAJOR REQUIREMENTs
Prerequisites/uni2002None
Number of courses/uni200212 course credits (incl senior req)
Distribution of courses  At least one introductory or intermediate, 1000-2000 level 
course in each of three subﬁelds; at least three advanced, 3000-4000 level courses (not 
incl ANTH 4071 , 4091, or seminar senior essay)
Substitution permitted Up to 3 cognate courses in other departments or programs with 
DUS approval
Senior requirement/uni2002Senior essay in advanced sem; or ANTH 4091 ; or yearlong essay 
in ANTH 4071  and ANTH 4091 ; students electing a concentration may have additional 
requirements speciﬁc to that concentration
concentrations
Majors may choose to concentrate in one of the following areas to take advantage of 
groups of related courses and recommended sequences. Each of these concentrations 
has its own requirements and recommendations that ﬁt within the overall requirements 
of the anthropology major.
Concentration in Archaeology
The archaeology subﬁeld focuses on understanding societies and cultures through 
the study of their material remains. Students in anthropological archaeology develop 
skills that allow them to study sites that were inhabited or modiﬁed by people in the 
past (including sites from relatively recent or modern times), together with a variety 
of materials recovered at such places, from microscopic residues and chemical traces 
to monumental buildings and entire landscapes. They learn to develop and apply 
theoretical approaches from the social sciences and comparative data from ethnographic 
and historical sources, coupled with a growing range of scientiﬁc methods of analysis 
derived from the natural and biological sciences.
In addition, students should gain ﬁeld experience by joining a summer ﬁeld school. 
Many archaeological ﬁeld schools are oﬀered around the world, and students are 
encouraged to apply to the Albers or Coe fellowships to defer the costs. In special cases, 
laboratory or museum activities may substitute for ﬁeld work with the approval of the 
DUS.
A concentration in Archaeology is similar to but also diﬀerent from a major in
Archaeological Studies. The Anthropology major with a concentration in Archaeology 
provides a strong background in anthropological theory, ethnography, and biological 
anthropology, in addition to archaeology. The Archaeological Studies major is an option 
for students who wish to pursue coursework in additional departments, such as Classics 
and Classical Civilizations, Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations, and History of 
Art, among others. Alternatively, students can choose to double major in Anthropology 
and Archaeological Studies.
All students with this concentration need to complete at least six course credits as 
indicated. Senior majors with a concentration in Archaeology should consult with 
their senior thesis advisor to complete a thesis pertinent to the archaeology subﬁeld 
(alternative formats for fulﬁlling this requirement can be discussed with the thesis 156            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
advisor and DUS). Courses other than those listed below or tagged with departmental 
attributes (in YCS) may count with permission of the DUS.
Concentration requirements
See Links to the attributes indicating courses approved for this concentration: YC 
ANTH Archaeology, YC ANTH Adv Lab/Data Analysis, YC ANTH Theory
•1 introductory survey course: ANTH 1171 , ANTH 1172
•1 foundational laboratory course: ANTH 3116L
•1 advanced laboratory or data analysis course
•1 theory course
•1 seminar
•1 area focused course with DUS approval
Concentration in biological anthropology
The concentration in Biological Anthropology helps students understand human 
evolutionary biology, comparative primate behavior and biology, evolutionary genetics, 
and the hominin and primate fossil records. Students become knowledgeable about 
the fundamentals of evolutionary biology, mechanisms of evolution and population 
genetics, human and non-human primate behavioral ecology, life history and 
reproductive ecology, and the relationship of our species to other primates. They will 
be prepared to navigate research on human and non-human primates thoughtfully 
and ethically and will have a grounding in the principles of rigorous scientiﬁc research, 
quantitative reasoning, data analysis, data interpretation, and critical analysis of 
primary scientiﬁc literature.
The concentration in Biological Anthropology is distinguished from the major 
in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology by its focus on the evolutionary biology of 
humans and our primate relatives, including the use of genetics and endocrinology 
to address questions about both our evolution and our current world, and on the 
interplay of human biology and culture. Students are encouraged to gain solid 
scientiﬁc backgrounds by taking courses in related departments such as Ecology and 
Evolutionary Biology.
The concentration in Biological Anthropology overlaps with and complements the 
concentration in Medical Anthropology and Global Health in conceptual approaches 
and scientiﬁc methods. It complements the Department’s Archaeology program by its 
coverage of the fossil and archaeological record for early human evolution and of the 
ecological, behavioral, and demographic context in which our own species emerged and 
successfully dispersed across the world. It complements the sociocultural and linguistic 
anthropology program by providing a comparative context for understanding how our 
species then came to manifest our contemporary unprecedented behavioral diversity 
and ﬂexibility.
All students with this concentration need to complete at least six course credits in 
biological anthropology or cognates, not including the senior project. Senior majors 
should consult with their senior thesis advisor to complete a thesis with an emphasis 
on the biological subﬁeld. Essays written as term papers for seminars do not meet the Anthropology         157
senior requirement for this concentration. Courses other than those listed below or 
tagged with departmental attributes (in YCS) may count with permission of the DUS.
Concentration requirements
See Links to the attributes indicating courses approved for this concentration: YC 
ANTH Biological
•Required course: ANTH 1400
•4 or more biological anthropology seminar or cognate electives
•at least 1 advanced seminar in biological anthropology
Concentration in Sociocultural anthropology
A concentration in sociocultural anthropology engages students in the study of how 
diﬀerent people live and understand the world, their aspirations and struggles, and 
how both shared and conﬂicting ideas, values, and interests are related to action and 
interaction in society. Study and research in sociocultural anthropology is grounded in 
wide-ranging social and cultural theory and take ethnography to be a primary mode of 
research and a key form of expression (whether through ethnographic texts or other 
media, such as ﬁlm). This concentration oﬀers students an opportunity to focus on 
many parts of the world; on areas of inquiry such as environmental anthropology, 
urban anthropology, or economic anthropology; and topics such as language, legal 
and political institutions, race and ethnicity, information, science, and technology, 
gender, sexuality, and the body, and more. Students completing a concentration 
in sociocultural anthropology will have excellent skills for interpreting cultural 
diﬀerences, understanding power and inequality, and connecting small-scale human 
lived experiences with an understanding of large-scale structures and transformations.
Students are encouraged to learn more about opportunities and sources of support for
undergraduate research in anthropology.
Students in this concentration are also invited to explore the Certiﬁcate in Ethnography
as a means to deepen and expand their interests in sociocultural anthropology through 
coursework in related academic units that engage with ethnographic methods and 
ethnography-informed scholarship, including (but not limited to): African American 
Studies, American Studies, Environmental Studies, Ethnicity, Race, and Migration 
(ER&M), History, History of Science, Medicine, and Public Health (HSHM), Political 
Science, Sociology, Urban Studies, and Women’s, Gender, and Sexuality Studies 
(WGSS).
Note: The Anthropology Department does not oﬀer an independent concentration in 
linguistic anthropology. Students interested in linguistic anthropology may concentrate 
on sociocultural anthropology and consult with the DUS and appropriate faculty about 
choosing courses most relevant to their interests.
There are six required course credits that may be applied to this concentration. With DUS 
approval, similar courses taught in the department, or a related department or program, 
may substitute. The senior requirement is not one of the concentration requirements; 
however, seniors should consult with their senior thesis advisor to complete a thesis 
emphasizing the sociocultural subﬁeld. Courses other than those listed below or tagged 
with departmental attributes (in YCS) may count with permission of the DUS.158            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
Concentration requirements
See Links to the attributes indicating courses approved for this concentration: YC 
ANTH Sociocultural, YC ANTH Linguistic
•1 introductory course in sociocultural anthropology at the 1000 level
•3 or more electives in sociocultural and linguistic anthropology at the 2000-4000 
level
•ANTH 3720 , the core research methods course, usually taken in the junior year. 
With DUS approval, a similar methods course taught in the Department, or a 
related department or program, may substitute.
•ANTH 3710 , the core theory course, usually taken in the junior year
concentration in medical anthropology and global health
The concentration in Medical Anthropology and Global Health (MAGH) addresses 
the biological, ecological, economic, political, and sociocultural dimensions of health, 
illness, and healing around the world. It brings together theories, frameworks, 
and ethnographic foundations from sociocultural anthropology with biocultural 
orientations and research approaches found in biological anthropology. Students 
learn theoretical and methodological tools to think critically about issues related 
to health research, practice, and policy. They address the biological, ethical, and 
sociocultural aspects of global health inequities, caregiving, medical and healing 
practices, technological innovations, and health interventions. The concentration 
encourages a mindful and critical look at how social conditions and inequalities shape 
the health and illness experiences of individuals, families, and populations. Students 
who choose a MAGH concentration may pursue further graduate academic study in 
medical anthropology, or careers in biomedical and health-related ﬁelds, including 
epidemiology, global health, nursing, medicine, and public health. Others may be 
interested in health policy and legal aspects of health care delivery, among other ﬁelds.
All students opting for this concentration must complete six course credits in medical 
anthropology, global health, or cognate disciplines. In consultation with their adviser 
and/or the DUS, and especially if they plan independent research, students may wish 
to take an appropriate methods course as well. The senior requirement is not one of the 
concentration requirements; however, seniors should consult with their senior thesis 
advisor to complete a thesis emphasizing the medical anthropology or global health 
subﬁeld. Courses other than those listed below or tagged with departmental attributes 
(in YCS) may count with permission of the DUS.
Concentration requirements
See Links to the attribute indicating courses approved for this concentration: YC 
ANTH Medical
•ANTH 4848
• at least 1 seminar at the 3000- or 4000- level that supports their preparation for the 
senior essay
• 4 other electivesAnthropology         159
FACULTY OF THE DEPARTMENT OF ANTHROPOLOGY
Professors Richard Bribiescas, Richard Burger, Michael Dove (School of the 
Environment), Kathryn Dudley (Anthropology/American Studies), Eduardo Fernandez-
Duque, Erik Harms, William Honeychurch, Marcia Inhorn, Paul Kockelman, 
Catherine Panter-Brick, Douglas Rogers, Eric Sargis, Helen Siu, Kalyanakrishnan 
Sivaramakrishnan, Anne Underhill, Claudia Valeggia, David Watts
Associate Professors Oswaldo Chinchilla, Yukiko Koga, Louisa Lombard, Lisa Messeri, 
Christen Smith (Anthropology/African American Studies)
Assistant Professors Jessica Thompson, Serena Tucci
Lecturers Carol Carpenter, Jane Lynch