168            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
Archaeological Studies
Director of undergraduate studies: William Honeychurch
(william.honeychurch@yale.edu), archaeology.yale.edu
This interdisciplinary major is supervised by the University's Council on Archaeological 
Studies. Inquiries about the major may be addressed to the chair of the council, Richard 
Burger (richard.burger@yale.edu), Department of Anthropology, 10 Sachem St., or to 
the director of undergraduate studies (DUS).
The major in Archaeological Studies provides a program of interdepartmental 
oﬀerings covering prehistoric, early historic, medieval, and other cultures and cultural 
developments in the Old and New Worlds and introduces students to the analytic 
tools that facilitate archaeological studies. The major is designed to expose students 
to a variety of archaeological research perspectives: anthropological, historical, art 
historical, and scientiﬁc. Also emphasized are substantive studies including (1) study 
of prehistoric–early historic transformations such as the origins of agriculture, cities 
and states, and early empires, and (2) study of the material culture, art, and architecture 
of prehistoric, early historic, and medieval cultures, including the iconography of 
ancient cultures, the relationship between art and society, ancient writing systems, and 
American historical archaeology.
Requirements of the Major
See Links to the attributes indicating courses approved for the Archaeological Studies 
major requirements.
The major consists of twelve term courses, including the senior project. In addition, 
students must participate in a Yale-aﬃliated summer research project, or that of 
another archaeological ﬁeld school approved in advance by the DUS. The following 
ﬁve courses are required: an introductory survey; the introductory laboratory course
ARCG 3116L; an advanced laboratory course; a theory course; and the senior research 
project ARCG 4491. The remaining seven courses required for the major must be 
distributed among the subject areas represented by the departments and programs 
oﬀering courses multiple-titled with Archaeological Studies, with three of those seven 
courses found in diﬀerent departments and programs. The relevant departments and 
programs are Anthropology, Classics, Earth and Planetary Sciences, Environmental 
Studies, History, History of Art, Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations, and
Religious Studies. With the permission of the DUS, a course may be counted toward 
a subject area other than the one(s) under which it is listed. For three of the seven 
archaeology electives students may, with permission of the DUS, substitute courses 
from other departments in areas related to their research.
Field research In addition to being the base for several faculty ﬁeld projects around 
the globe, the Council on Archaeological Studies takes as its principal mission the 
encouragement of multiple ﬁeld experiences. Our undergraduate majors are required 
to participate in at least one intensive summer ﬁeld school. Approval is required, and 
costs are often subsidized by the Council. Students are encouraged to participate in each 
other’s ﬁeld projects, thereby learning about the greatest number of cultures and areas 
possible, while experiencing a diverse array of ﬁeld situations.Archaeological Studies         169
Students are strongly encouraged but are not required, to devote a second summer to 
archaeological research, either in the ﬁeld or in a laboratory. Council faculty currently 
direct archaeological ﬁeld projects in China, Egypt, Guatemala, Peru, Mongolia, 
Armenia, and Italy. Qualiﬁed majors are encouraged to apply for research positions 
with these projects.
Credit/D/Fail/uni2002No more than one course taken Credit/D/Fail may be applied toward 
the requirements of the major.
Outside credit Courses taken at another institution or during an approved summer or 
term-time study abroad program may count toward the major requirements with DUS 
approval.
Senior Requirement
The ﬁnal requirement for the major is a senior research project (ARCG 4491) in some 
ﬁeld of archaeology, preferably one involving more than one area or discipline.
Advising
Students majoring in Archaeological Studies should consult with the DUS at the 
beginning of each term.
SUMMARY OF MAJOR REQUIREMENTS
Prerequisites None
Number of courses 12 term courses (incl senior project)
Speciﬁc course required ARCG 3116L (intro lab)
Distribution of courses  1 intro survey; 1 advanced lab; 1 theory course; 7 electives, at 
least 1 in each of 3 areas, as speciﬁed
Field requirement 1 summer ﬁeld techniques course or research project, as speciﬁed 
and approved by the DUS
Substitution permitted For 3 electives, 3 courses related to research, with DUS 
permission
Senior requirement Research project (ARCG 4491)
COUNCIL ON ARCHAEOLOGICAL STUDIES
Anthropology/uni2002Richard Burger (Chair), Oswaldo Chinchilla, Ellery Frahm, Piphal 
Heng, William Honeychurch, Roderick McIntosh (Emeritus), Eric Sargis, Jessica 
Thompson, Anne Underhill, David Watts
Classics/uni2002Andrew Johnston, Milette Gaifman
Earth and Planetary Sciences Ronald Smith
History/uni2002Joseph Manning
History of Art/uni2002Edward Cooke, Jr., Allison Caplan, Alexander Ekserdjian
Near Eastern Languages & Civilizations/uni2002John Darnell, Eckart Frahm, Gregory 
Marouard, Nadine Moeller, Harvey Weiss170            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
Religious Studies/uni2002Stephen Davis