British Studies         187
British Studies
(Courses at the Paul Mellon Centre in London)
Director of undergraduate studies: Jemma Field (jemma.ﬁeld@yale.edu)
The Yale in London study abroad program is run by the Yale Center for British Art 
(YCBA) and Yale’s Paul Mellon Centre for Studies in British Art (PMC)—a world-
class research center in central London. This program is an exciting opportunity for 
undergraduates to take interdisciplinary Yale courses abroad to explore the arts, politics 
and culture in Britain, and through its diasporic and global histories.
All students who participate in the program are expected to enroll full-time, which the 
program deﬁnes as four courses in the spring and two courses in the summer. There are 
no prerequisites and students from any major and from any year of study may apply. 
All courses carry full Yale College credit. Students may elect to take up to two courses 
Credit/D/Fail during the spring term, but they must enroll in at least two courses, 
representing at least two course credits, for a letter grade as indicated in Section B, 
Grades in the Academic Regulations.
Yale University professors and world-leading academics, writers, and thinkers from 
the UK teach courses seminar-style. Courses are experiential and designed to ensure a 
signiﬁcant amount of time is spent learning outside of the classroom. Day trips, visits to 
museums/sites/organizations, and guest speakers are a key part of their delivery.
Further information on housing, fees, ﬁnancial aid, and student life is available 
on the program website. Inquiries about the program, described under 
"International Experience" in The Undergraduate Curriculum, may be directed to
yaleinlondon@yale.edu.
The application deadline for the spring term is in October and the application deadline 
for the summer program is in March. See the Yale in London website for exact 
deadlines. Students are notiﬁed of acceptance within one month of the application 
deadline.