200            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
Classics
Director of undergraduate studies: Jessica Lamont (dus.classics@yale.edu); 304 
Phelps Hall; classics.yale.edu
The Department of Classics oﬀers a major in Classics, concentrating in either Greek 
or Latin literature, or in both literatures; a major in Classical Civilization; and, in 
conjunction with the Hellenic Studies program, a major in Ancient and Modern 
Greek. The diversity of subject matter covered by these majors makes Classics an 
excellent partner in interdepartmental major programs. Programs for all majors must 
be approved by the director of undergraduate studies (DUS).
Course numbering
All CLCV courses are taught in translation, with no knowledge of Greek or Latin 
required. CLCV courses numbered 0001–0999 are First-Year Seminars, with 
enrollment limited to eighteen. CLCV courses numbered at the 1000-level and 2000-
level are primarily introductory, lecture-style courses, which may or may not include a 
discussion-section component. CLCV courses numbered at the 3000-level and 4000-
level are primarily intermediate and advanced discussion-oriented seminars, with 
enrollment limited to eighteen. The second digit of CLCV course codes indicates 
their subject: 1 designates Greek literature; 2 designates Latin literature; 3 designates 
general literature; 4 designates Greek history; 5 designates Roman history; 6 designates 
general history; 7 designates history of art; 8 designates archaeology; and 9 designates 
philosophy.
For language courses in Ancient Greek (GREK) and Latin (LATN), those at the 1000-
level and 2000-level are introductory and intermediate courses (L1, L2, L3, and L4) 
designed to be taken in the ﬁrst and second years for students with no prior knowledge. 
Those at the 3000-level are “bridge” courses designed to transition students from 
intermediate to advanced reading courses (L4 to L5). Those at the 4000-level are 
advanced seminar-style courses (L5). The ﬁnal digit of each language course conveys 
what language designation it confers (e.g., GREK 2003 confers L3, LATN 4215 confers 
L5, etc.). The second and third digits order courses chronologically by latest author.
Placement Procedures
Students are encouraged to take courses as advanced as they can handle with proﬁt 
and pleasure. The department, recognizing the great variety of preparation in ancient 
languages, wishes to accommodate incoming students in as ﬂexible a manner as 
possible. Students who plan either to begin or to continue the study of Greek or Latin 
should consult the DUS and Classics Language Program Director as soon as possible.
Students who have had the equivalent of two years of college-level instruction may try a 
4000-level course, though the faculty may recommend a 3000-level course instead. It is 
possible to take GREK 2004  or LATN 2004  after a 4000-level course or to be admitted 
to a 4000-level course after completion of GREK 2003  or LATN 2003 .
Requirements of the Major in Classics
See Links to the attributes indicating courses approved for the Classics 
major requirements.Classics         201
The major in Classics is primarily a liberal arts major. It provides a rigorous 
interdisciplinary education in the literature, material culture, and history that underlie 
Western civilization and other humanities disciplines; it can also provide foundational 
disciplinary expertise for students who wish to do professional graduate work. Students 
develop a mastery of the classical languages, become acquainted with important periods 
and major authors in Greek and Roman literature, and develop the linguistic, historical, 
and theoretical interpretative tools to analyze classical antiquity and its relevance in 
the modern world. All courses in the department emphasize a combination of precise 
analysis, original thought, creativity, and breadth of historical inquiry. Courses in other 
literatures, in history, in history of art, and in philosophy are strongly recommended for 
students enrolled in the Classics major.
The department recognizes three concentrations for this major: one aiming at 
knowledge of both ancient literatures, Greek and Latin; a second concentrating on 
Greek literature; and a third concentrating on Latin literature.
The concentration in two literatures requires no fewer than twelve term courses 
(including the senior requirement). These include six language courses in both 
Greek and Latin at the level of 3000 or above, of which no fewer than two must be 
taken in each language. These six courses must include GREK 4995  or LATN 4995 . 
Also required are one course that covers broadly the literature and/or culture of 
ancient Greece (CLCV at the 1000- or 2000-level), one course that covers broadly the 
literature and/or culture of ancient Rome (CLCV at the 1000- or 2000-level), one 
course in a related ﬁeld in ancient history, and one course in a related ﬁeld in ancient 
history, ancient philosophy, classical art and archaeology, or classical civilization.
Students concentrating in one literature (Greek or Latin) are required to take 
no fewer than twelve term courses (including the senior requirement). These 
include six language courses in that literature at the level of 3000 or above and 
must include GREK 4995  or LATN 4995 . Also required are one course that covers 
broadly the literature and/or culture of ancient Greece (CLCV at the 1000- or 2000-
level), one course that covers broadly the literature and/or culture of ancient Rome 
(CLCV at the 1000- or 2000-level), a course in ancient history related to the chosen 
literature, and an additional course in ancient history, classical art and archaeology, 
ancient philosophy, or classical civilization. Students are encouraged to do some work in 
the second language and may substitute two terms at the intermediate level (2003 and 
2004) or higher in the second language for two 3000-level or 4000-level courses in the 
major literature. 
Credit/D/Fail/uni2002No course taken Credit/D/Fail may be applied toward the requirements 
of the major.
Outside credit Courses taken at another institution or during an approved summer or 
term-time study abroad program may count toward the major requirements with DUS 
approval.
Senior Requirement 
Students must enroll in one or two semesters of the Classics Senior Tutorial (either
CLSS 4998 or CLSS 4999, or both CLSS 4998 and CLSS 4999). The Senior Tutorial is 
designed to accommodate a range of culminating experiences in the ﬁeld of Classics: an 
original work of scholarly research, an intensive study of language and literature based 202            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
on a customized reading list, or an alternative creative project. A faculty advisor should 
be selected and a brief proposal submitted for approval by the end of the junior year. 
Students who elect the one-term Senior Tutorial must take one additional course to 
fulﬁll the requirements of the major; this can be any course designated CLCV, CLSS, 
LATN, or GREK; or—with approval of the DUS—a relevant course in another ﬁeld of 
study.
Combined B.A./M.A. degree/uni2002Exceptionally able and well-prepared students may 
complete a course of study leading to the simultaneous award of the B.A. and M.A. 
degrees after eight terms of enrollment. See Academic Regulations, section L, Special 
Academic Arrangements, “Simultaneous Award of the Bachelor's and Master's 
Degrees.” Interested students should consult the DUS prior to the sixth term of 
enrollment for speciﬁc requirements in Classics.
SUMMARY OF MAJOR REQUIREMENTS
Prerequisites/uni2002None
Number of courses/uni200212 term courses (incl senior requirement)
Speciﬁc courses required GREK 4995  or LATN 4995
Distribution of courses /uni2002All concentrations—1 course that covers broadly the literature 
and/or culture of ancient Greece, and 1 course that covers broadly the literature and/
or culture of ancient Rome; 1 addtl course in ancient hist, classical art and archaeology, 
ancient philosophy, or classical civ; Two literatures concentration—6 courses in both langs 
at level 3000 or above, with one of those being GREK 4995  or LATN 4995 ; 1 course 
in ancient hist; One literature concentration—6 courses in lit at level 3000 or above, 
with one of those being GREK 4995  for the Greek major and LATN 4995  for the Latin 
major; 1 course in ancient hist related to lit of major
Substitution permitted/uni2002One literature—2 courses in the other literature numbered 2003 
and 2004 or higher for 2 courses in the major literature at the 3000-level or 4000-level
Senior requirement/uni2002Two terms of Senior Tutorial (CLSS 4998 and CLSS 4999) or 
one-term of Senior Tutorial (CLSS 4998 or CLSS 4999) and an additional course
Requirements of the Major in Classical Civilization
See Links to the attributes indicating courses approved for Classical Civilization 
major requirements.
The major in Classical Civilization is designed to oﬀer students an opportunity to study 
an entire Western civilization in its many diverse but related aspects. The literature, 
history, philosophy, religion, art, archaeology, and other aspects of Greek and Roman 
antiquity from the earliest beginnings in Greece to the Middle Ages are studied for 
their intrinsic artistic value, their historical signiﬁcance, and their power to illuminate 
problems confronting contemporary societies. Each year, the department oﬀers courses 
that focus on ways that subsequent ages have used and made sense of classical antiquity. 
Ancient texts are studied primarily in translation under the guidance of instructors who 
have expertise in Greek and Latin.Classics         203
Candidates for the major complete at least twelve term courses (including the Senior 
Tutorial) in Classics and related departments. Of these, two must be in ancient history 
and/or classical art and archaeology, and two must be in Greek or Latin, or both, 
numbered 2003 or higher (the latter courses should be completed by the end of the 
junior year). Students must also take one course that covers broadly the literature 
and/or culture of ancient Greece (CLCV at the 1000- or 2000-level) and one term 
course that covers broadly the literature and/or culture of ancient Rome (CLCV at the 
1000- or 2000-level). It is strongly recommended that candidates elect one course each 
in the general areas of ancient epic, drama, philosophy, Roman civilization, and the 
classical tradition. Candidates for the major are encouraged to take related courses in 
other departments.
Credit/D/Fail/uni2002Courses taken Credit/D/Fail may not be counted toward the 
requirements of the major.
Senior Requirement 
Students must enroll in one or two semesters of the Classical Civilization Senior 
Tutorial (either CLCV 4998 or CLCV 4999, or both CLCV 4998 and CLCV 4999). The 
Senior Tutorial is designed to accommodate a range of culminating experiences in the 
ﬁeld of Classics: an original work of scholarly research, an intensive study of language 
and literature based on a customized reading list, or an alternative creative project. 
A faculty advisor should be selected and a brief proposal submitted for approval by 
the end of the junior year. Students who elect the one-term Senior Tutorial must take 
one additional course to fulﬁll the requirements of the major; this can be any course 
designated CLCV, CLSS, LATN, or GREK; or—with approval of the DUS—a relevant 
course in another ﬁeld of study.
SUMMARY OF MAJOR REQUIREMENTS
Prerequisites/uni2002None
Number of courses/uni200212 term courses (incl senior requirement)
Speciﬁc courses required/uni2002None
Distribution of courses/uni2002 2 courses in ancient history and/or classical art and 
archaeology; 2 courses in Greek or Latin, or both, numbered 2003 or higher; 1 course 
that covers broadly the literature and/or culture of ancient Greece; and 1 course that 
covers broadly the literature and/or culture of ancient Rome
Senior requirement/uni2002Two terms of Senior Tutorial (CLCV 4998  and CLCV 4999 ) 
or one-term of Senior Tutorial (CLCV 4998  or CLCV 4999 ) and additional course
Requirements Of the Major in Ancient and Modern Greek
See Links to the attributes indicating courses approved for Ancient and Modern Greek 
major requirements.
The major in Ancient and Modern Greek oﬀers students an opportunity to integrate 
the study of postclassical Greek language, history, and culture with the departmental 
program in ancient Greek and classical civilization. The major covers Hellenic 
civilization from the Bronze Age to the modern day and traces the development of the 
language and the culture across traditionally drawn boundaries. The study of both 204            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
ancient and modern Greek allows the student to appreciate how familiarity with one 
enriches understanding of the other and to chart the development of a language which 
has one of the oldest continuous written traditions in the world. The literature, history, 
philosophy, religion, and art of the ancient Greek and Greco-Roman worlds are studied 
both as ends in themselves and also as a foundation for appreciating later (medieval, 
Ottoman, and modern) developments in these areas. Students are encouraged to 
develop a sense of the continuity of Greek language and culture and an understanding 
of how Byzantine and modern forms relate to their ancient forebears.
The major in Ancient and Modern Greek requires at least twelve term courses. These 
include four term courses at the level of 3000 or above in ancient Greek, one of which 
should be GREK 4995 , and four term courses consisting of: one term course that covers 
broadly the literature and/or culture of ancient Greece (a course with the designation 
CLCV at the 1000- or 2000-level), one term course that covers broadly the literature 
and/or culture of ancient Rome (a course with the designation CLCV at the 1000- or 
2000-level), one term course in ancient Greek history, and at least one additional term 
course in the history, history of art, literature, or culture of the Greek-speaking Balkans 
or the Hellenic diaspora in the medieval, Ottoman, or modern period. Candidates are 
encouraged to take a wide range of courses in the areas of ancient philosophy, religion, 
art, and architecture. In addition, no fewer than two term courses in modern Greek 
(HELN) must be elected at the intermediate level (HELN 1300 , HELN 1400 )  or above.
Credit/D/Fail/uni2002Courses taken Credit/D/Fail may not be counted toward the 
requirements of the major.
Senior Requirement 
Students must enroll in one or two semesters of the Classics Senior Tutorial (either 
CLSS 4998 or CLSS 4999, or both CLSS 4998 and CLSS 4999). The Senior Tutorial is 
designed to accommodate a range of culminating experiences in the ﬁeld of Classics: an 
original work of scholarly research, an intensive study of language and literature based 
on a customized reading list, or an alternative creative project. A faculty advisor should 
be selected and a brief proposal submitted for approval by the end of the junior year. 
Students who elect the one-term Senior Tutorial must take one additional course to 
fulﬁll the requirements of the major; this can be any course designated CLCV, CLSS, 
LATN, or GREK; or—with approval of the DUS—a relevant course in another ﬁeld of 
study.
SUMMARY OF MAJOR REQUIREMENTS
Prerequisites/uni2002None
Number of courses/uni200212 term courses (incl senior requirement)
Speciﬁc courses required/uni2002GREK 4995
Distribution of courses /uni20024 term courses in ancient Greek numbered 3000 or higher, as 
indicated, and incl GREK 4995 ; 4 term courses in Greek and Roman history and lit, as 
indicated; 2 term courses in modern Greek at the intermediate level
Senior requirement/uni2002Two terms of Senior Tutorial (CLSS 4998 and CLSS 4999) or 
one-term of Senior Tutorial (CLSS 4998 or CLSS 4999) and an additional courseClassics         205
Certiﬁcates of Advanced Language Study
The Classics Department oﬀers a Certiﬁcate of Advanced Language Study to non-
majors in ancient Greek and in Latin. A certiﬁcate adviser, typically the director of 
undergraduate studies (DUS), advises students on the certiﬁcation process. The 
Certiﬁcate of Advanced Language Study, once certiﬁed, is listed on the student 
transcript. 
Requirements
Students seeking to earn the certiﬁcate are required to take four courses in ancient 
Greek or Latin beyond the L4 level (i.e., four L5 courses; 3000- or 4000-level Greek 
or 3000- or 4000-level Latin courses). All courses must be taken for a letter grade, 
and students must achieve a grade of B or above. With the approval of the certiﬁcate 
adviser, one course, such as an independent study course (graded pass/fail), a graduate 
seminar, or an advanced seminar, may count toward certiﬁcation requirements.
The certiﬁcate adviser may allow one “language across the curriculum” (LxC) course 
taught in English to count toward the certiﬁcation requirements, provided the course 
includes, at minimum, a weekly discussion section conducted entirely in 
the target language. The discussion section must enroll a minimum of three students 
and the course must be designated as LxC in the course description.
The adviser may also approve the substitution of up to two credits earned during 
study abroad and taught in the target language to count toward the certiﬁcate 
requirements. If the adviser approves courses taken outside of Yale for inclusion in the 
certiﬁcate requirements, students must take the necessary steps to ensure those courses 
appear on their transcripts.
Credit/D/Fail/uni2002No courses taken Credit/D/Fail may be counted toward the 
requirements of the certiﬁcate.
Declaration of Candidacy
Students must declare their intention to earn a Certiﬁcate on the Declare Major, 
Concentration within the Major, Certiﬁcate page on Yale Hub, as early as possible, but 
at the very latest, by the 15th of January or September in their last semester at 
Yale. Once declared, Degree Audit tracks students' progress toward completion 
of the certiﬁcate.
FACULTY OF THE DEPARTMENT OF CLASSICS
Professors/uni2002Egbert Bakker, Kirk Freudenburg, Milette Gaifman, Verity Harte, Brad 
Inwood, Christina Kraus, Noel Lenski, Pauline LeVen, Joseph Manning, James Uden
Associate Professor Andrew Johnston
Assistant Professors Malina Buturović, Alexander Ekserdjian, Benedek Kruchió, Jessica 
Lamont, Erika Valdivieso
Lectors John Dillon, James Patterson, Timothy Robinson