206            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
Climate Science and Solutions Certiﬁcate
Certiﬁcate director: Jeﬀrey Park (jeﬀrey.park@yale.edu)
This Certiﬁcate provides students with a foundation in basic climate 
science, anthropogenic climate change, and solutions, so they can be eﬀective and 
informed leaders in all walks of life in the decades to come. In our lifetimes, the 
combined eﬀects of climatic and environmental change will profoundly and pervasively 
alter the planet and the lives of all of us. In this day and age, eﬀective leaders cannot 
aﬀord to be ignorant of climate change and the many possible ways to mitigate it and 
its eﬀects. Climate change is one of humanity’s grand challenges and the goal of this 
Certiﬁcate is to prepare students to meet this challenge wherever their paths might lead.
Requirements
See Links to the attributes indicating courses approved for the certiﬁcate requirements.
Students must successfully complete six course credits. Three of the required 
courses must represent three diﬀerent pillars of thought, each designed to provide 
the fundamentals, vocabulary, and interdisciplinary scope to engage in integrative 
conversations, collaborations, and endeavors on climate change and solutions. The 
three pillars of thought are basic climate science; the science and impacts of 
anthropogenic climate change; and climate solutions.
From the ﬁrst pillar, students gain an understanding of the components, processes, and 
feedback of the climate system, including an overview of ocean-atmosphere dynamics, 
the carbon cycle, atmospheric gases, and their eﬀects, radiative balance, and spatial and 
temporal climate variability. (YC Climate Basic Climate Sci)
From the second pillar, students learn about drivers and projections for anthropogenic 
climate change, the feedback and uncertainties in regional-to-global climate models, 
regional-to-global climate change impacts, mitigation, and adaptation, and the 
interaction between climate and other aspects of global societal and environmental 
change. (YC Climate Anthropogenic)
From the third pillar, students learn about climate solutions, including the scientiﬁc, 
technological, and socio-political aspects of natural and technological solutions and 
strategies. (YC Climate Solutions)
One of the remaining 3 courses needs to be designated as a seminar on climate science 
and solutions as approved by the certiﬁcate director. Three of the 6 courses must have a 
science, engineering, or technology focus.
No more than two course credits fulﬁlling the requirements of the Climate Science 
and Solutions certiﬁcate may overlap with a major, a simultaneous degree, or another 
certiﬁcate. Additionally, no course credit may be applied toward the requirements 
of more than two curricular programs. For example, the same course credit may 
not be used to fulﬁll the requirements of two certiﬁcates and a major. No more than 
four credits may come from a single department or school.
Credit/D/Fail/uni2002 No course taken Credit/D/Fail may be applied toward the requirements 
of the certiﬁcate.Climate Science and Solutions Certiﬁcate         207
Outside credit Courses taken at another institution or during an approved summer or 
term-time study abroad program may count toward the certiﬁcate requirements with 
the approval of the certiﬁcate director. An on-topic summer internship can replace one 
elective.
Declaration of Candidacy
Students must declare their intention to earn a Certiﬁcate on the Declare Major, 
Concentration within the Major, Certiﬁcate page on Yale Hub, as early as possible, but 
at the very latest, by the 15th of January or September in their last semester at 
Yale. Once declared, Degree Audit tracks students' progress toward completion 
of the certiﬁcate.
Requirements of the Certiﬁcate
Number of courses/uni20026 course credits
Distribution of courses/uni2002 1 course in each of three pillars; 3 of the 6 required courses 
must focus on science, engineering, or technology, and 1 should be a seminar on the 
climate science and solutions of climate crisis