208            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
Cognitive Science
Director of undergraduate studies: Tyler Brooke-Wilson
(tyler.brooke.wilson@yale.edu), 102 C, 432-1699; www.yale.edu/cogsci
Cognitive science explores the nature of cognitive processes such as perception, 
reasoning, memory, attention, language, decision making, imagery, motor control, and 
problem solving. The goal of cognitive science, stated simply, is to understand how 
the mind works. Cognitive science is an inherently interdisciplinary endeavor, drawing 
on tools and ideas from ﬁelds such as psychology, computer science, linguistics, 
philosophy, economics, and neuroscience. Approaches include empirical studies of the 
ontogenetic and phylogenetic development of cognitive abilities, experimental work 
on cognitive processing in adults, attempts to understand perception and cognition 
based on patterns of breakdown in pathology, computational and robotic research that 
strives to simulate aspects of cognition and behavior, neuroscientiﬁc investigations 
of the neural bases of cognition using neural recording and brain scanning, and the 
development of philosophical theories of the nature of mind.
Prerequisite
An introductory survey course, CGSC 1100, is normally taken by the end of the fall 
term of the sophomore year and prior to admission to the major.
Requirements of the Major
Students are held to the requirements that were in place when they declared their 
major. However, with approval from the DUS, the following requirements, updated 
for the academic year 2025– 2026, may be fulﬁlled by students who declared the major 
in a prior term./uni2002
See Links to the attributes indicating courses approved for Cognitive Science major 
requirements.
The requirements of the major for the B.S. and B.A. degrees are the same, except for 
the senior requirement. Fifteen term courses, for a total of thirteen and one half course 
credits, are required for the major, including the introductory course and the senior 
requirement. Each major program must include the elements described below. The 
particular selection of courses must be approved by the director of undergraduate 
studies (DUS) in order to assure overall coherence. No course may be used to fulﬁll 
more than one requirement for the major.
Breadth requirement/uni2002A breadth requirement introduces students to the subﬁelds of 
cognitive science. Each major is required to take a course from four of the following six 
areas:
1.Computer science: CPSC 2010
2.Economics and decision making: ECON 2159
3.Linguistics: LING 1100, LING 1160, 1300, 1179, 2320, 2530
4.Neuroscience: MCDB 3200, NSCI 3400, PSYC 1600, 2670
5.Philosophy: PHIL 1126, 1182, 2269, 2270, 2271
6. Psychology: PSYC 1100, S139E, 1400Cognitive Science         209
Depth requirement/uni2002Students fulﬁll a depth requirement by completing six courses that 
focus on a speciﬁc topic or area in cognitive science. The depth courses must be chosen 
from at least two disciplines, and are typically drawn from the six cognitive science 
subﬁelds. It may be possible to draw depth courses from other ﬁelds when necessary to 
explore the student's focal topic, in consultation with the DUS. All six depth courses 
must be intermediate or advanced; for most disciplines, courses numbered 3000 or 
above fulﬁll the requirement. With permission of the DUS, up to two directed reading 
or research courses may count toward the depth requirement.
Skills requirement/uni2002Because formal techniques are fundamental to cognitive 
science, one skills course is required, preferably before the senior year. Courses that 
fulﬁll the skills requirement include CPSC 1001, 2020, LING 2249, PSYC 2670,
S&DS 1000, 2200,  2300, and S107E. Other courses may fulﬁll this requirement with the 
permission of the DUS.
Junior colloquium/uni2002In the junior year, students are required to take CGSC 3950, a half-
credit colloquium in which majors discuss current issues and research in cognitive 
science and select a senior essay topic.
Repeat for credit Only one term of CGSC 4710, 4720, 4730, or 4740 may be offered 
toward the major.
Credit/D/Fail/uni2002No course taken Credit/D/Fail may be applied toward the requirements 
of the major, except with permission of the DUS.
Outside credit Courses taken at another institution or during an approved summer or 
term-time study abroad program may count toward the major requirements with DUS 
approval.
Senior Requirement 
In the senior year, students take a full-credit capstone course in which the senior essay is 
written. Students in the course meet regularly with one another and with the faculty 
member to discuss current work in cognitive science and their own developing research 
projects. Students must take this course during their senior year.
B.S. degree program/uni2002The B.S. degree requires two half-credit courses for one-course 
credit of empirical research, CGSC 4900 and 4910. These courses are only open to 
Cognitive Science seniors and receive a letter grade. This normally includes designing 
an experiment and collecting and analyzing data.
B.A. degree program/uni2002The B.A. degree requires two half-credit courses for one-course 
credit of nonempirical research, CGSC 4800 and 4810. These courses are only open to 
Cognitive Science seniors and receive a letter grade. There are no restrictions on the 
research format.
Advising and Application to the Major 
Students may apply to enter the major at any point after the ﬁrst year. Applications 
must be submitted online through Qualtrics. Applications must include (1) an official or 
unofficial transcript of work at Yale, (2) a brief statement of purpose, which indicates 
academic interests and expected focus within the areas of the Cognitive Science major, 
and (3) a list of the six upper-level courses that the student plans to take as part of 210            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
the research focus. The application link and answers to frequently asked questions are 
available on the program website.
SUMMARY OF MAJOR REQUIREMENTS
Prerequisite/uni2002CGSC 1100
Number of courses/uni200215 term courses, for a total of 13.5 course credits (incl prereq and 
senior req)
Speciﬁc course required/uni2002CGSC 3950
Distribution of courses/uni2002 1 course each in 4 of 6 subﬁelds, as speciﬁed for breadth req; 6 
courses in a speciﬁc topic or area, as speciﬁed for depth req; 1 skills course, as speciﬁed
Senior requirement/uni2002B.S.—CGSC 4900 and CGSC 4910; B.A.—CGSC 4800 and
CGSC 4810
FACULTY ASSOCIATED WITH THE PROGRAM IN COGNITIVE SCIENCE
Professors/uni2002Woo-kyoung Ahn (Psychology), Stephen Anderson (Emeritus), Amy 
Arnsten (School of Medicine), Richard Aslin (Haskins Laboratories), John Bargh 
(Psychology), Paul Bloom (Emeritus) (Psychology), Hal Blumenfeld (School of Medicine),
Claire Bowern (Linguistics ), Nicolò Cesana-Arlotti (Psychology), Marvin Chun 
(Psychology), Veneeta Dayal (Linguistics ), Michael Della Rocca (Philosophy), Ravi 
Dhar (School of Management), Julie Dorsey (Computer Science ), Melissa Ferguson 
(Psychology), Robert Frank (Linguistics ), Shane Frederick (School of Management), David 
Gelernter (Computer Science ), Tamar Gendler (Philosophy), Laurence Horn (Emeritus) 
(Linguistics ), Marcia Johnson (Emeritus), Christine Jolls (Law School), Dan Kahan 
(Law School), Frank Keil (Psychology, Linguistics), Joshua Knobe (Philosophy), Gregory 
McCarthy (Psychology), Nathan Novemsky (School of Management, Psychology), 
Kenneth Pugh (School of Medicine), Ian Quinn (Music), Holly Rushmeier (Computer 
Science), Laurie Santos (Psychology), Brian Scassellati (Computer Science, Mechanical 
Engineering ), Brian Scholl ( Chair) (Psychology), Sun-Joo Shin (Philosophy), Jason 
Stanley (Philosophy), Zoltán Szabó (Philosophy), Nick Turk-Browne (Psychology), 
Tom Tyler (Law School), Julie Van Dyke (Haskins Laboratories), Fred Volkmar (School 
of Medicine), David Watts (Anthropology), Karen Wynn (Emeritus) (Psychology), 
Gideon Yaﬀe (Law School), Raﬀaella Zanuttini (Linguistics ), Gal Zauberman (School of 
Management), Steven Zucker (Computer Science, Biomedical Engineering )
Associate Professors Philip Corlett (School of Medicine), Jason Dana (School of 
Management), Yarrow Dunham (Psychology), Hedy Kober (School of Medicine), James 
McPartland (Child Study Center), Maria Piñango (Linguistics )
Assistant Professors Ryan Bennett (Linguistics ), Steve Chang (Psychology), 
Philip Corlett (School of Medicine), Julian Jara-Ettinger (Psychology), Julia 
Leonard (Psychology), Samuel McDougle (Psychology), Al Powers (School of 
Medicine), Robb Rutledge (Psychology), Marynel Vázquez (Computer Science ), Ilker 
Yildirim (Psychology)
Lecturer Daylian Cain (School of Management)