214            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
Comparative Literature
Director of undergraduate studies: Samuel Hodgkin
(samuel.hodgkin@yale.edu); complit.yale.edu/literature-major
The Comparative Literature major allows students to address fundamental questions 
about the nature, function, and value of literature in a broadly comparative context. 
Students read and write about a wide variety of literary works across periods, genres, 
and national traditions. They investigate ancient and contemporary approaches to 
literary study, theories and methods of comparison, and the relationship of literature 
to ﬁlm and other media. Majors have the freedom to construct a program of study that 
reﬂects their intellectual goals. All prospective majors should register with the director 
of undergraduate studies (DUS), who will work with them to develop a coherent 
sequence of courses suited to their individual interests.
The Comparative Literature major oﬀers four unique concentrations: Literature and 
Comparative Cultures; Intensive Language; Film; and Literary Translation. These 
concentrations share the same core courses. Other courses are normally chosen from 
diﬀerent language and literature programs, many of which oﬀer courses on literature 
and ﬁlm in translation. Among these programs are African American Studies, Classics,
East Asian Languages and Literatures, English Language and Literature, Film and 
Media Studies, French, German Studies, Italian Studies, Near Eastern Languages and 
Civilizations, Portuguese, Slavic Languages and Literatures, and Spanish.
Prospective majors are strongly encouraged to begin the study of a language other 
than English as early as possible in their academic careers and to continue such study 
throughout their time at Yale. All concentrations of the Comparative Literature major 
require students to have advanced (L5) competence in at least one language other than 
English. Students interested in graduate study in comparative literature should be 
aware that many programs require reading knowledge of two or three languages other 
than English.
Requirements of the Major
See Links to the attributes indicating courses approved for Comparative Literature 
major requirements.
The Comparative Literature major requires twelve term courses, including the 
senior requirement and two required foundational seminars, one of which must be
CPLT 1300 and the other may be CPLT 1400 or 1430 or 3048, depending on which 
concentration the student is pursuing. Beyond the two required courses and the 
senior essay, the major requires nine term courses, with speciﬁc requirements for each 
concentration. Students must choose one concentration and each concentration requires 
students to take two or three literature and/or ﬁlm courses in a single language other 
than English; all have a period requirement and a theory requirement. Additionally, 
prospective majors must achieve an L5 in the language in which they plan to fulﬁll their 
literature requirement.
For the in-language literature requirement, students must take two or three courses 
(depending on the concentration) reading literature in a single language other than 
English. One L4 course can be counted, but the remaining courses must be taken at 
L5 or equivalent. Students may count non-instructional language courses (no L4 or L5 Comparative Literature         215
distributional designation number) in which reading knowledge of the language is a 
prerequisite and extensive in-language readings are assigned. With DUS permission, 
one of the in-language literature requirements may be fulﬁlled with a language course, 
not speciﬁcally marked as a literature or ﬁlm course, that includes substantial literary 
readings and/or ﬁlm screenings.
For the period requirement, students must take at least one course in three of ﬁve 
historical periods: (1) Antiquity (covering until approximately the 6th century AD); 
(2) Medieval (ca. 6th-15th centuries); (3) Early Modern (ca. 14th-18th centuries); (4) 
19th century; and (5) 20th-21st centuries. In practice, many courses deal with texts 
covering several periods. A course may fulﬁll the requirement for any period if at least 
half the primary readings come from that period. For questions about which period 
requirements a course might fulﬁll consult the DUS.
For the theory requirement, students must take one course that involves a signiﬁcant 
component of literary or cultural theory. Students who wish to know if a course, 
particularly those oﬀered in other departments, may count toward this requirement 
should consult the DUS.
Literature and Comparative Cultures concentration
Literature and Comparative Cultures is the least constraining concentration, permitting 
students to plan a course of study tailored to their particular interests. Prospective 
majors electing the Literature and Comparative Cultures concentration must take two 
required foundational seminars; CPLT 1300 and one of CPLT 1400, 1430, or 3048. 
Beyond the two required courses and the senior essay, the concentration requires three 
in-language literature courses with readings in a language other than English (see 
under Requirements of the Major for more information), three courses that fulﬁll 
the period requirement, two elective courses, and one theory course. Period courses, 
elective courses, and the theory course may be taken in any literature department 
(including English) and may include two courses in a related discipline that has a 
direct bearing on the student's program of study in literature, such as history of art, 
philosophy, anthropology, music, or theater studies. One of the electives may be in 
creative writing or Directed Studies, but composition courses (ENGL 1014 , 1015, or
1020) may not be counted.  
Intensive Language concentration
Prospective majors electing this concentration focus their plan of study on literature 
studied in two languages other than English. They must take two required foundational 
seminars: CPLT 1300 and CPLT 1400; three courses that fulﬁll the period requirement; 
three in-language literature courses in a single language other than English (see under 
Requirements of the Major for more information); two literature courses in a second 
language other than English; and one course that involves a signiﬁcant element of 
literary or cultural theory.
Film Concentration
Students in the Film concentration focus their plan of study on ﬁlm and media. 
They must take two required foundational seminars: CPLT 1300 and CPLT 1430; 
three courses that fulﬁll the period requirement; two (rather than three) in-language 
literature courses with readings in the same language other than English (see under 
Requirements of the Major for more information); three electives (which must have a 216            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
FILM course number); and one course in ﬁlm theory. At least one of the in-language 
literature courses must be at the L5 level.
Literary Translation concentration
Students in the Literary Translation concentration focus on the theory and practice of 
literary translation. They must take two required foundational seminars: CPLT 1300
and CPLT 3048; three courses that fulﬁll the period requirement; three in-language 
literature courses in a single language other than English, two of which must be an L5 
course (see under Requirements of the Major for more information); one course in 
literary or cultural theory; and two courses that engage with some aspect of translation 
studies. The DUS can provide a list of qualifying courses.
Credit/D/Fail/uni2002No more than two courses taken Credit/D/Fail may be applied toward 
the requirements of the major, with permission of the DUS. None of the speciﬁc 
required courses may be taken Credit/D/Fail.
Outside credit Courses taken at another institution or during an approved summer or 
term-time study abroad program may count toward the major requirements with DUS 
approval.
Senior Requirement
For the senior essay (CPLT 4910, or CPLT 4920, 4930), students develop a research 
topic of their choice and work closely with a faculty adviser, preferably from the 
department. Normally, the essay makes use of texts in the language of their original 
composition. Any exceptions must be approved by the DUS. Deadlines for the 
prospectus, the rough draft, and the completed essay are listed on the departmental 
website. The initial deadline for a topic proposal signed by the thesis adviser is before 
the end of the previous semester, so majors should begin their search for an adviser and 
topic early in the spring of their junior year.
The senior essay may be written over one term (CPLT 4910) or over two terms 
(CPLT 4920, 4930). Students with an especially well-developed project may petition 
to write a yearlong senior essay. Interested juniors must apply by the last day of classes 
in the spring term. Students may count the second term of the essay as one elective 
course toward the total number of courses required for the major. Students expecting 
to graduate in May enroll in CPLT 4920 during the fall term and complete their essays 
in CPLT 4930 in the spring term. December graduates enroll in CPLT 4920 in the 
spring term and complete their essays in CPLT 4930 during the following fall term.
Course Substitutions
A literature course taught in English translation is sometimes suitable as a non-English 
literature course. In such cases, majors are expected to request additional assignments 
from their instructors that demonstrate they have engaged with the texts in the original 
language. They should submit the appropriate form, signed by the instructor, attesting 
to their intent to do so. The department registrar or the DUS can provide this form; 
students should submit it to the DUS at the beginning of the semester along with their 
course schedule.
Non-native speakers of English who are granted permission by Yale College to complete 
the language distributional requirement by taking ENGL 1014 , 1015, 1020, or 3450 may 
take a total of three English literature courses to fulﬁll the three in-language literature Comparative Literature         217
course requirements, or they may fulﬁll the major requirements by taking three courses 
in a third language.
Study Abroad 
Comparative Literature majors are encouraged to consider spending a summer, a term, 
or a year abroad. One course taken through international programs and approved by 
Yale College may, with permission of the DUS, be applied to the in-language literature 
requirement.
SUMMARY OF MAJOR REQUIREMENTS
Prerequisites/uni2002None
Number of courses/uni200212 term courses (incl senior requirement and concentration 
requirements)
Speciﬁc courses required All concentrations—CPLT 1300; Literature 
and Comparative Cultures—1 of CPLT 1400, 1430, or 3048; Intensive 
Language—CPLT 1400; Film—CPLT 1430 or equivalent; Literary 
Translation—CPLT 3048 or equivalent/uni2002
Distribution of courses  All concentrations—3 period courses, as speciﬁed; Literature 
and Comparative Cultures—3 in-language literature courses, as speciﬁed, 1 course in 
literary or cultural theory, 2 elective courses; Intensive Language— 3 literature courses in 
one language, 2 literature courses in a second language, 1 course in literary or cultural 
theory; Film—2 in-language lit courses, 1 course in ﬁlm theory; 3 electives in Film and 
Media Studies; Literary Translation—3 in-language literature courses, as speciﬁed, 1 
course in literary or cultural theory, 2 courses in translation studies
Senior requirement/uni2002One-term senior essay (CPLT 4910); or two-term senior essay 
(CPLT 4920 and CPLT 4930)
FACULTY OF THE DEPARTMENT OF COMPARATIVE LITERATURE
Professors/uni2002Dudley Andrew (Emeritus),  Peter Brooks (Emeritus),  Rüdiger Campe, 
Roberto González Echevarría (Emeritus), Martin Hägglund, Hannan Hever, Carol 
Jacobs (Emeritus), Pericles Lewis, David Quint (Emeritus), Ayesha Ramachandran, 
Shawkat Toorawa, Katie Trumpener, Jing Tsu, Jane Tylus, Jesús Velasco
Associate Professors/uni2002Robyn Creswell, Marta Figlerowicz, Moira Fradinger
Assistant Professor/uni2002Samuel Hodgkin
Senior Lecturers/uni2002Peter Cole, Jan Hagens
Lecturers/uni2002Jane Mikkelson, Candace Skorupa, George Syrimis
Aﬃliated Faculty/uni2002R. Howard Bloch (French), Francesco Casetti (Film & Media 
Studies), Michael Denning (American Studies), Alice Kaplan ( French), Tina Lu (East 
Asian Languages & Literatures), John MacKay (Slavic Languages & Literatures), Maurice 
Samuels (French), Ruth Yeazell (English)