238            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
Directed Studies
Director of undergraduate studies: Katja Lindskog (katja.lindskog@yale.edu), 
HQ (320 York St.); Chair of Humanities: Pauline LeVen, HQ (320 York St.);
directedstudies.yale.edu
Directed Studies (DS), a selective program for ﬁrst-year students, is an interdisciplinary 
introduction to inﬂuential texts that have shaped many Western and Near Eastern 
traditions, spanning from cultures in the Ancient Mediterranean to the present.
Directed Studies is a coherent program of study that encourages students to put 
rich and complex texts into conversation with one another across time and across 
disciplinary boundaries. Students in Directed Studies learn to analyze challenging and 
urgent texts, to participate meaningfully in seminar discussions, and to write clear and 
persuasive analytic essays.
Prerequisites
Directed Studies has no prerequisites and is designed for students with or without any 
background in humanities or Western thought, ancient or modern. Students must 
enroll in the full slate of Directed Studies courses in both semesters of the program. 
(In order to enroll for the second term, students must have completed the ﬁrst term's 
courses.)
Unique to the Program
The Directed Studies program consists of three integrated full-year courses in 
Literature, Philosophy, and Historical and Political Thought. Approximately ten percent 
of the ﬁrst-year class are accepted each year. Students entering the program must enroll 
in all three courses and are expected to enroll for both semesters. Students participating 
in DS become members of a close-knit and supportive intellectual cohort that endures 
well beyond the end of the ﬁrst year.
Each of the three Directed Studies courses meets weekly for two seminars and one 
lecture. Seminars have a maximum of ﬁfteen students and provide an opportunity to 
work closely with Yale faculty. The regular lectures and seminars are complemented by 
guest lectures that feature distinguished speakers from Yale and beyond. Our study of 
written texts is enhanced by special sessions at the Yale Art Gallery, the Yale Center for 
British Art, and the Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript Library.
Directed Studies fulﬁlls a number of Yale College distributional requirements, 
including the two required course credits in the humanities and arts (HU), the two 
required course credits in the social sciences (SO), and the two required course 
credits in writing (WR). Moreover, courses taken in Directed Studies can be counted 
toward satisfying requirements in a variety of majors. For example, both terms of DS 
Historical and Political Thought may be counted toward the History major, and one 
term may be counted toward the major in Political Science; both terms of DS Literature 
may be counted toward the Comparative Literature major. The program serves as a 
strong foundation for all majors in Yale College, including many STEM ﬁelds, and 
is an outstanding basis for careers in law, public policy, business, education, the arts, 
journalism, consulting, engineering, and medicine.