248            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
East Asian Studies
Director of undergraduate studies: Lucas Bender
(luke.bender@yale.edu); macmillan.yale.edu/eastasia
In the East Asian Studies major, students focus on a country or an area within East Asia 
and focus their work in the humanities or the social sciences. The major oﬀers a liberal 
education that serves as excellent preparation for graduate study or for business and 
professional careers in which an understanding of East Asia is essential.
The major in East Asian Studies is interdisciplinary, and students typically select classes 
from a wide variety of disciplines. The proposed course of study must be approved by 
the director of undergraduate studies (DUS).
Prerequisite
The prerequisite to the major is completion of study at the L2 level of an East Asian 
language taught at Yale or the equivalent.
Requirements of the Major
Beyond the prerequisite, the major consists of thirteen course credits, which may 
include up to six taken in a preapproved program of study abroad. Six course credits 
must be taken in East Asian language courses, including a course at the L4 level and one 
year of advanced study (L5) with readings in the East Asian language.
Beyond the language requirement, the major includes seven course credits, six in the 
country or area of focus and one outside it. Areas of focus include: China, Korea, or 
Japan. Of the course credits in the area of focus, one must be in the premodern period, 
at least two must be seminars, and one is the senior requirement. Both seminars must 
be completed before the semester in which students complete their senior essay. These 
courses are normally taken at Yale during the academic year, but with prior approval of 
the DUS the requirement may be fulﬁlled through successful coursework undertaken 
elsewhere.
Credit/D/Fail/uni2002No more than one course taken Credit/D/Fail may be applied toward 
the requirements of the major, with permission of the DUS.
Outside credit Courses taken at another institution or during an approved summer or 
term-time study abroad program may count toward the major requirements with DUS 
approval.
Senior Requirement 
Before enrolling in the course in which the senior requirement will be met, students 
must have completed the two seminars related to their area of focus requirement. 
During the senior year, all students must satisfy a senior requirement consisting of 
a major research project that uses Chinese, Japanese, or Korean-language materials, 
reﬂects an up-to-date understanding of the region, and demonstrates a strong 
command of written English. This requirement can be met in one of three ways. (1) 
Students may take a seminar that relates to the country or area of focus, culminating 
in a senior thesis. Students who are unable to write a senior essay in a seminar may 
complete (2) a one-term senior essay in EAST 4900, or (3) a one-credit, two-term 
senior research project in EAST 4910, EAST 4920 culminating in an essay. The adviser East Asian Studies         249
for the senior project should be a faculty member associated with the Council on East 
Asian Studies with a reading knowledge of the target language materials consulted for 
the essay.
Advising
Selection of courses/uni2002 Upon entering the major, students are expected to draw up an 
intellectually coherent sequence of courses in consultation with the DUS. They must 
consult with the DUS each term concerning their course schedules. They should 
identify as soon as possible a faculty adviser in their area of focus. As a multidisciplinary 
program, East Asian Studies draws on the resources of other departments and 
programs in the University. Students are encouraged to examine the oﬀerings of other 
departments in both the humanities and the social sciences, as well as Residential 
College Seminars, for additional relevant courses. The stated area of focus of each 
student determines the relevance and acceptability of other courses. For a complete 
listing of courses approved for the major, see the Council on East Asian Studies website.
Courses in the graduate and professional schools/uni2002Qualiﬁed students may elect 
pertinent courses in the Graduate School and in some of the professional schools with 
permission of the instructor, the EAST DUS, and the director of graduate studies of the 
relevant department or the dean or registrar of the professional school.
Combined B.A./M.A. degree program/uni2002Exceptionally able and well-prepared students 
may complete a course of study leading to the simultaneous award of the B.A. and 
M.A. degrees after eight terms of enrollment. See Academic Regulations, section 
L, Special Academic Arrangements, “Simultaneous Award of the Bachelor's and 
Master's Degrees.” Interested students should consult the DUS prior to the ﬁfth term of 
enrollment for speciﬁc requirements in East Asian Studies.
SUMMARY OF MAJOR REQUIREMENTS
Prerequisite/uni2002L2 level of an East Asian lang taught at Yale or the equivalent
Number of courses/uni200213 course credits beyond prereq (incl senior req); up to 6 may be in 
preapproved study abroad
Distribution of courses/uni2002 6 course credits in East Asian lang courses, incl 1 L4 course 
and 1 year at L5 level with readings in the lang; 6 addtl course credits in country or area 
of focus, incl 1 in premodern era and 2 seminars (the two seminars must be completed 
before starting senior req); 1 course credit on East Asia outside country or focus area
Senior requirement/uni2002Senior sem culminating in senior thesis, or one-term senior 
essay in EAST 4900, or one-credit, two-term senior research proj in EAST 4910,
4920 culminating in an essay
FACULTY ASSOCIATED WITH THE PROGRAM OF EAST ASIAN STUDIES
Professors Daniel Botsman (History), Fabian Drixler (History), Aaron Gerow (East 
Asian Languages & Literatures; Film & Media Studies), Valerie Hansen (History), 
Hwansoo Kim (Religious Studies), Tina Lu (East Asian Languages & Literatures), Helen 
Siu (Anthropology), Chloe Starr (Divinity School ), Jing Tsu (East Asian Languages & 
Literatures; Comparative Literature), Anne Underhill (Anthropology), Arne Westad 
(Global Aﬀairs; History), Mimi Yiengpruksawan (History of Art)250            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
Associate Professors Lucas Bender (East Asian Languages & Literatures), Eric Greene 
(Religious Studies), William Honeychurch (Anthropology), Michael Hunter (East Asian 
Languages & Literatures), Yukiko Koga (Anthropology)
Assistant Professors Jinyi Chu (Slavic Languages and Literatures), Maura Dykstra
(History), Kyunghee Eo (East Asian Languages & Literatures), Bo kyung Blenda Im 
(Sacred Music; Divinity), Daniel Mattingly (Political Science), Charles McClean (Political 
Science), Quincy Ngan (History of Art), Marta Sanvido (Religious Studies), Hannah 
Shepherd (History), Rosa van Hensbergen (East Asian Languages & Literatures), 
Yoshitaka Yamamoto (East Asian Languages & Literatures), Emma Zang (Sociology)
Senior Lecturer Pauline Lin (East Asian Languages & Literatures)
Lecturers Usmon Boron, Ugyan Choedup, Hyemin Lee, Wonseok Lee, Sheng Long, J. 
Scott Lyons, Maddalena Poli, Luciana Sanga, Tulku Ngawang Sonam, Catherine Tsai, 
Yingxue Wang
Senior Lectors II Angela Lee-Smith, Rongzhen Li, Ninghui Liang, Hiroyo 
Nishimura, Peisong Xu
Senior Lectors Hsiu-hsien Chan, Min Chen, Boo Kyung Jung, Fan Liu, Jianhua 
Shen, Wei Su, Chuanmei Sun, Haiwen Wang, Yu-lin Wang Saussy, Mika Yamaguchi, 
Yongtao Zhang, William Zhou
Lectors Jingjing Ao, Seunghee Back, Hye Seong Kim, Hyun Sung Lim, Saori Nozaki, 
Yuki Sakomura