244            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
East Asian Languages and Literatures
Director of undergraduate studies: Pauline Lin (pauline.lin@yale.edu); eall.yale.edu 
The major in East Asian Languages and Literatures provides rigorous training in 
the study of East Asian languages, literatures, cultures, and thought from ancient 
times through the present, with a strong focus on the reading and analysis of texts, 
theater, ﬁlm, and other forms of media. Students select either the Chinese, Japanese, 
or Korean concentration but are encouraged to take courses across geographical 
regions to become familiar with East Asian literary culture more broadly. The major 
is excellent preparation for careers including law, business, academia, foreign service, 
translation, and journalism that demand advanced linguistic proﬁciency and analytical 
sophistication. East Asian Languages and Literatures graduates have gone on to careers 
in law, business, academia, medicine, ﬁlm, translation, teaching, and diplomacy.
Courses for Nonmajors
All courses oﬀered by the Department of East Asian Languages and Literatures are open 
to nonmajors.
Course Numbering
Language courses use the subject codes CHNS, JAPN, or KREN. Multiple-
titled courses that include CHNS, JAPN, or KREN subject codes and are numbered 
2000–2999 are taught in English with some sections taught in Chinese, Japanese, or 
Korean. Courses with the subject code EALL are content courses whose focus is critical 
and humanistic; those numbered 2000–2999 are introductory, and those numbered 
3000–3999 are advanced. Courses numbered EALL 0001–0099 are First-Year Seminars 
with topics on East Asian literature, ﬁlm, and humanities.
Prerequisite
Candidates for the major must complete CHNS 1400 , JAPN 1400 , KREN 1400 , or the 
equivalent.
Placement Procedures
Students who enroll in the department's language courses for the ﬁrst time but who 
have studied Chinese, Japanese, or Korean elsewhere, and students who have skills 
in one of these languages because of family background, must take a placement 
examination before the beginning of the academic year. These exams can be accessed 
via the department website and must be completed before the end of July. Students of 
Japanese, Chinese, and Korean languages, returning from programs abroad, must take 
a placement examination, unless the coursework was completed at an institution pre-
approved by the Richard U. Light Fellowship program. For questions, consult with the 
director of undergraduate studies (DUS).
Requirements of the Major
Students are held to the requirements that were in place when 
they declared their major. However, with approval from the director of undergraduate 
studies (DUS), the following requirements, updated for the academic year 
2024-2025, may be fulﬁlled by students who declared the major in a prior term. A 
Korean concentration was added to the Chinese and Japanese concentrations.East Asian Languages and Literatures         245
The major consists of at least eleven term courses beyond the prerequisite. Students 
must take two terms of advanced modern Chinese (CHNS 1500  and 1510 or 
equivalents), advanced Japanese (JAPN 1500  and 1510 or equivalents), or advanced 
Korean (KREN 1500  and 1510 or equivalents) as well as one term of literary Chinese 
(CHNS 1700 ), literary Japanese (JAPN 1700 ), or Introduction to Hanja (KREN 1700 ). 
Students also take a survey course in Chinese, Japanese, Korean, or East Asian history 
and culture, preferably early in their studies. Three courses are required in literature in 
translation, taught in English, selected from EALL 2000–3999; one must be focused 
primarily on premodern content. These three may include courses on theater and 
ﬁlm. In addition, three advanced courses with readings in literary or modern Chinese, 
Japanese, and/or Korean are required.
Credit/D/Fail No more than one course taken Credit/D/Fail may be applied toward the 
requirements of the major, with permission of the DUS.
Outside credit Courses taken at another institution or during an approved summer or 
term-time study abroad program may count toward the major requirements with DUS 
approval.
Senior Requirement
Students prepare a one-term senior essay in EALL 4910 or a yearlong senior essay in
EALL 4920 and 4930. Those who elect a yearlong essay eﬀectively commit to taking 
twelve term courses in the major, because the second term of the essay may not be 
substituted for any of the eleven required courses.
Study Abroad
Students are encouraged to study abroad. Interested students should consult with the 
DUS and with the oﬃce of the Richard U. Light Fellowship to apply for support for 
programs in China, Japan, and Korea.
SUMMARY OF MAJOR REQUIREMENTS
Prerequisite CHNS 1400 , JAPN 1400 , KREN 1400 , or equivalent
Number of courses 11 courses (incl one-term senior essay) or 12 courses (incl yearlong 
senior essay) beyond prerequisite
Speciﬁc courses required Chinese concentration—CHNS 1500 , 1510 or equivalents, 
and 1700; Japanese concentration—JAPN 1500 , 1510 or equivalents, and 1700; Korean
concentration—KREN 1500 , 1510 or equivalents, and 1700
Distribution of courses  1 survey course in Chinese, Japanese, Korean, or East Asian 
history and culture; 3 courses in literature in translation numbered EALL 2000–3999, 
one of them premodern; 3 adv courses with readings in Chinese, Japanese, or Korean
Senior requirement One-term senior essay (EALL 4910) or yearlong senior essay 
(EALL 4920, 4930)
Certiﬁcate of Advanced Language Study
The Department of East Asian Languages and Literatures oﬀers a Certiﬁcate of 
Advanced Language Study in Chinese, Korean, and Japanese. A certiﬁcate adviser, 
typically the director of undergraduate studies (DUS), advises students on the 246            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
certiﬁcation process. The Certiﬁcate of Advanced Language Study, once certiﬁed, is 
listed on the student's transcript.
Requirements
Students seeking to earn the certiﬁcate are required to take four courses beyond the L4 
level in their chosen language, at least two of which must be Yale courses designated 
as L5. (Courses conducted in English, such as CHNS 1700  and 1710, JAPN 1700  and
1710, and KREN 1700  do not count.) All courses must be taken for a letter grade, 
and students must achieve a grade of B or above. With the approval of the certiﬁcate 
adviser, one advanced non-L5 course, conducted in the target language, such as an 
independent study course (graded pass/fail), a graduate seminar, or an advanced 
seminar may count toward certiﬁcation requirements.
The certiﬁcate adviser may allow one “language across the curriculum” (LxC) course 
taught in English to count toward the certiﬁcation requirements provided the course 
includes at a minimum a weekly discussion section conducted entirely in the target 
language. The discussion section must enroll a minimum of three students and the 
course must be designated as LxC in the course description.
The certiﬁcate adviser may also approve the substitution of up to two credits earned 
during study abroad and taught in the target language to count toward the certiﬁcate 
requirements. If the adviser approves courses taken outside of Yale for inclusion in the 
certiﬁcate requirements, students must take the necessary steps to ensure those courses 
appear on their transcript.
Credit/D/Fail/uni2002No courses taken Credit/D/Fail may be counted toward the 
requirements of the certiﬁcate.
Declaration of Candidacy
Students must declare their intention to earn a Certiﬁcate on the Declare Major, 
Concentration within the Major, Certiﬁcate page on Yale Hub, as early as possible, but 
at the very latest, by the 15th of January or September in their last semester at 
Yale. Once declared, Degree Audit tracks students' progress toward completion 
of the certiﬁcate.
FACULTY OF THE DEPARTMENT OF EAST ASIAN LANGUAGES AND 
LITERATURES
Professors/uni2002Aaron Gerow (Chair), Tina Lu, Jing Tsu
Associate Professors/uni2002Lucas Bender, Michael Hunter, Hwansoo Kim
Assistant Professors Kyunghee Eo, Rosa van Hensbergen, Yoshitaka Yamamoto
Senior Lecturer/uni2002Pauline Lin
Senior Lectors II/uni2002Angela Lee-Smith, Rongzhen Li, Ninghui Liang, Hiroyo Nishimura, 
Peisong Xu
Senior Lectors/uni2002Hsiu-hsien Chan, Min Chen, Boo Kyung Jung, Fan Liu, Jianhua 
Shen, Wei Su, Chuanmei Sun, Haiwen Wang, Yu-lin Wang Saussy, Mika Yamaguchi, 
Yongtao Zhang, William ZhouEast Asian Languages and Literatures         247
Lectors/uni2002Jingjing Ao, Seunghee Back, Hye Seong Kim, Hyun Sung Lim, Saori Nozaki, 
Yuki Sakomura