264            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
Education Studies Certiﬁcates
Associate director: Lauren Carpenter (lauren.carpenter@yale.edu), Faculty director:
Maria Pinango; https://educationstudies.yale.edu/, Program FAQ
The Education Studies Program in Yale College provides a structured pathway for 
students interested in education theory and research, policy, and pedagogy. Through 
the study of education, students engage in an interdisciplinary exploration of a 
fundamental institution that shapes citizenship, governance, social reproduction, child 
development, and social inequality. Yale courses across the disciplines address these 
varying aspects of education through three area categories: (1) theory and research, (2) 
policy, and (3) pedagogy.
Students can engage with Education Studies through one of two pathways  alongside 
their major:
•The Scholar Intensive Certiﬁcate, which oﬀers a cohort-learning experience and 
requires the completion of a capstone project.
•The Education Studies Certiﬁcate, which oﬀers an individualized pathway that 
allows students to develop expertise through Education Studies coursework. 
Students may opt for either the Scholar Intensive Certiﬁcate or the Education Studies 
Certiﬁcate.
•To apply for the Scholar Intensive Certiﬁcate, visit the Education Studies website.
•To pursue the Education Studies Certiﬁcate, register on Yale Hub.
No more than two course credits fulﬁlling the requirements of either Education 
Studies certiﬁcate may overlap with a major, a simultaneous degree, or another 
certiﬁcate. Additionally, no course credit may be counted toward more than two 
curricular programs. For example, the same course credit may not be used to fulﬁll the 
requirements of two certiﬁcates and a major.
Any Yale College student interested in education studies may enroll in the introductory 
survey course, EDST 1110, Foundations in Education Studies. This lecture course 
explores the historical, social, philosophical, and theoretical foundations of education, 
providing students with a deeper understanding of its critical role in society across 
theory and research, policy, and pedagogy.
Scholar Intensive certiﬁcate in Education studies
The Education Studies Scholar Intensive Certiﬁcate in Yale College provides a 
structured pathway for students interested in completing an Education Studies 
capstone project while learning alongside a supportive cohort from sophomore through 
senior year.
In the fall of their sophomore year, students who have successfully completed 
or are currently enrolled in EDST 1110 may apply to the Scholar Intensive 
Certiﬁcate alongside their major. Selected students join a close-knit cohort, engaging 
in small seminars and exploring through collaborative learning. With guidance from 
faculty, peers, and alumni, they pursue educational opportunities tailored to their Education Studies Certiﬁcates         265
individual interests. Scholar Intensive Certiﬁcate students gain practical ﬁeld experience 
through an academic-year or summer ﬁeld placement.
Requirements
See Links to the attributes indicating courses approved for the Theory and Research, 
Policy, and Pedagogy requirements.
To complete the Scholar Intensive Certiﬁcate program, students must take ﬁve courses 
including EDST 1110 and EDST 1261 to fulﬁll the Theory and Research requirement; 
one course in Policy or Pedagogy, two capstone courses including EDST 4400 and 
either EDST 4410 or 4490. Alternately, students may complete the capstone in one 
term with EDST 4400 and take an additional EDST elective. Students must also fulﬁll 
a ﬁeld experience. Two of the ﬁve courses may overlap with the student's major. No 
more than two course credits may overlap in the fulﬁllment of the requirements of 
the Scholar Intensive Certiﬁcate or of a major, a simultaneous degree, or another 
certiﬁcate. No course credit may be counted toward the requirements of more than two 
curricular programs. For example, the same course credit may not be used to fulﬁll the 
requirements of two certiﬁcates and a major. Graduate and professional school courses 
may count, with approval from the Education Studies Associate Director. For a listing 
of courses in the area categories, see the Education Studies website. 
Credit/D/Fail/uni2002 No more than one course in the Policy or Pedagogy curricular grouping 
taken Credit/D/Fail may count toward the certiﬁcate requirements.
Successful completion of the Scholar Intensive Certiﬁcate will be noted on transcripts. 
Summary of Requirements
Prerequisite/uni2002EDST 1110
Number of courses/uni20025 courses (including the prereq and senior req)
Distribution of courses 1 course credit in (1) Theory and Research (EDST 1261); 1 
course credit in either (2) Policy or (3) Pedagogy
Other requirement/uni2002Field experience as described on the EDST website
Senior requirement  EDST 4400 or in combination with either EDST 4410 or 4490. 
Students completing the capstone in one term must complete an additional EDST 
elective.
Certiﬁcate in Education Studies
See Links to the attributes indicating courses approved for the certiﬁcate requirements.
Open to all interested Yale students, the Certiﬁcate in Education Studies provides an 
opportunity to pursue an interdisciplinary study of education to complement their 
major.
To earn the certiﬁcate, students must complete a total of ﬁve courses: the prerequisite 
EDST 1110, one course in Theory and Research, one course in either Policy or 
Pedagogy, and two electives. No more than two course credits may overlap in the 
fulﬁllment of the requirements of the Education Studies Certiﬁcate or of a major, 
a simultaneous degree, or another certiﬁcate. Additionally, no course credit may be 
counted toward the requirements of more than two curricular programs. For example, 266            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
the same course credit may not be used to fulﬁll the requirements of two certiﬁcates and 
a major. Graduate and professional school courses may count with approval from the 
Education Studies Associate Director. For a listing of courses in the area categories, see 
the Education Studies website.
Credit/D/Fail/uni2002With the exception of EDST 1110, no more than one course taken 
Credit/D/Fail may be applied toward the requirements of the certiﬁcate.
Successful completion of the Certiﬁcate will be noted on transcripts.
Declaration of Candidacy
Once students are enrolled in the prerequisite EDST 1110, they may declare their intent 
to earn a Certiﬁcate in Education Studies. Students must declare their intention to earn 
a certiﬁcate on the Declare Major, Concentration within the Major, Certiﬁcate page on Yale 
Hub, as early as possible, but at the very latest, by the 15th of January or September 
in their last semester at Yale. Once declared, Degree Audit tracks students' progress 
toward completion of the certiﬁcate.
SUMMARY OF Requirements 
Prerequisite  EDST 1110
Number of courses/uni20025 courses
Distribution of courses/uni2002 1 course credit in (1) Theory and Research, 1 course credit in 
either (2) Policy or (3) Pedagogy; 2 EDST electives