Energy Studies Certiﬁcate         275
Energy Studies Certiﬁcate
Certiﬁcate director: Michael Oristaglio (michael.oristaglio@yale.edu); earth.yale.edu/
energy-studies
The Interdisciplinary Certiﬁcate in Energy Studies is designed to provide 
undergraduates with the knowledge and skills needed for advanced studies, leadership, 
and success in energy-related ﬁelds through a curriculum requiring coursework in three 
multidisciplinary tracks: Energy Science & Technology, Energy & Environment, Energy 
& Society. Activities such as ﬁeld trips, funded on-campus projects, and internships 
will be available to students interested in hands-on experience and training in the 
modern world of energy technology, ﬁnance, regulation, and policy. More information 
about the special activities is listed on the Energy Studies website.
Requirements
See Links to the attributes indicating courses approved for certiﬁcate requirements.
Students are required to complete two course credits in each of the three tracks of 
Energy Studies: (1) Energy Science & Technology, (2) Energy & Environment, (3) 
Energy & Society.
ENRG 3000, which is required as one of the six course credits (exceptions can be 
granted by the certiﬁcate director) and counts toward the Energy & Society track 
should be taken during the junior or senior year. ENRG 4000, the Senior Capstone 
Seminar, is not required but is oﬀered to students wishing to undertake a special 
energy-related project. ENRG 4000 can count toward the six required course credits in 
any one of the three tracks, depending on the project's topic.
Approved courses are listed on the Energy Studies website and are searchable in Yale 
Course Search. Graduate and professional school courses and non-Yale courses accepted 
for full course credit by Yale College may count toward the certiﬁcate; language 
courses may not count toward the certiﬁcate. Students are invited to present syllabi to 
the certiﬁcate director for courses that they think might be suitable for fulﬁlling the 
requirements of the certiﬁcate. It is the discretion of the certiﬁcate director to approve 
all courses that meet the curated curriculum of the certiﬁcate.
No more than two course credits fulﬁlling the requirements of the Energy Studies 
Certiﬁcate may overlap with a major, a simultaneous degree, or another certiﬁcate. 
Additionally, no course credit may be applied toward the requirements of more than 
two curricular programs. For example, the same course credit may not be used to fulﬁll 
the requirements of two certiﬁcates and a major.
Credit/D/Fail/uni2002No more than one course taken Credit/D/Fail or one independent study 
course graded Pass/Fail may be counted toward the requirements of the certiﬁcate.   
Declaration of Candidacy
Students must declare their intention to earn a Certiﬁcate on the Declare Major, 
Concentration within the Major, Certiﬁcate page on Yale Hub, as early as possible, but 
at the very latest, by the 15th of January or September in their last semester at 
Yale. Once declared, Degree Audit tracks students' progress toward completion 
of the certiﬁcate.276            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
Summary of REQUIREMENTS
Prerequisites/uni2002None
Number of courses/uni20026 course credits
Required course/uni2002ENRG 3000
Distribution of courses/uni2002 2 courses in each of the three tracks of Energy Studies listed 
above
  