Engineering          277
Engineering
Dean of the School of Engineering & Applied Science: Jeﬀrey F. Brock
engineering@yale.edu; seas.yale.edu
Programs are oﬀered in the departments of Applied Physics, Biomedical Engineering, 
Chemical and Environmental Engineering, Computer Science, Electrical Engineering, 
and Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science. These departments are administered 
by the Dean of the School of Engineering & Applied Science. The School also oﬀers 
interdisciplinary courses bearing on engineering programs.
Curricula in Yale's undergraduate engineering and applied science programs range 
from technically intensive ones to those with lesser technical content allows students 
considerable freedom to include courses of a nontechnical nature in their studies. 
Programs accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET, Inc., 
the accreditor for university programs in engineering, are the most intensive. ABET-
accredited programs include B.S. degrees in Chemical Engineering, Electrical 
Engineering, and Mechanical Engineering.
Some students ﬁnd that less intensive programs better meet their needs when 
considering two majors and/or careers in ﬁelds requiring less comprehensive technical 
knowledge. Such non-ABET programs include the B.S. in Applied Physics, Biomedical 
Engineering, Computer Science, or Environmental Engineering and the B.S. in 
Engineering Sciences—Chemical, Electrical, or Mechanical—as well as the B.A. 
in Computer Science or in Engineering Sciences—Electrical, Environmental, or 
Mechanical—designed for students planning careers in business, law, medicine, 
journalism, or politics who want their liberal arts education to include study of 
the impact that science and technology have on society. A related major in Applied 
Mathematics is also available.
For engineering courses and descriptions of the major programs mentioned above, 
see Applied & Computational Mathematics, Applied Physics, Biomedical Engineering,
Chemical & Environmental Engineering, Computer Science, Electrical & Computing 
Engineering, Materials Science, and Mechanical Engineering.