English Language and Literature         279
English Language and Literature
Director of undergraduate studies: Stefanie Markovits (stefanie.markovits@yale.edu); 
associate director of undergraduate studies: Marcel Elias (marcel.elias@yale.edu); 
registrar: Erica Sayers (erica.sayers@yale.edu); assistant registrar: Jane Bordiere
(jane.bordiere@yale.edu); english.yale.edu/welcome-english-major
The undergraduate program in English cultivates students' powers of argument 
and analysis while developing their understanding of important works of English, 
American, and world literatures in English. Courses oﬀered by the department 
are designed to teach students foundational research and writing skills; to provide 
historical perspectives from which to read and analyze literary works; and to deepen 
students' insight into their own experience. For students interested in creative writing, 
the department oﬀers an array of courses taught by renowned professional writers in all 
of the major genres, including ﬁction, poetry, play and ﬁlm writing, nonﬁction prose, 
and journalism.
The ability to write well remains a rare but prized skill in almost every domain of our 
world, and English majors go on to careers in many ﬁelds of endeavor. The analytic 
talents and the writing and speaking skills honed in the major can lead graduates to 
careers in ﬁelds such as advocacy, publishing, teaching, the arts, law, venture capital, 
medicine, and policy making.
Courses for Nonmajors and Majors
All English courses are open to both majors and nonmajors, although advanced 
seminars are intended primarily for junior and senior majors.
Introductory courses/uni2002English courses numbered from ENGL 1014–1030 are 
introductory and are open to all students in Yale College. Students interested in 
the English Major or in related majors in the Humanities should consider starting 
in the 1020-1030 range of courses. New students planning to elect a section of
ENGL 1014  or ENGL 1015  in the fall term should refer to the department website for 
information about preregistration. Once registered, students must attend the ﬁrst and 
all subsequent course meetings for that particular section until the end of the add/
drop period in order to retain a place. Students who miss a class meeting during this 
period without informing the instructor beforehand may have their places ﬁlled from 
the waiting list.
Advanced courses/uni2002Advanced courses are open to upper-level students; the faculty 
recommends that students both within and outside the major prepare for such work 
with two terms of introductory English. Sophomores and juniors are encouraged to 
enroll in lecture courses in order to gain broad perspectives in preparation for more 
focused study. Seminars oﬀer more intensive treatment of their topics, which are also 
often more specialized. While both lectures and seminars are frequently oﬀered more 
than once, students should not expect the same courses to be oﬀered from one year to 
the next.
Writing courses/uni2002Besides courses that concentrate on the writing of expository prose 
(ENGL 1014 , 1015, 1020, and 1021), the English department oﬀers a number of creative 
writing courses. The introductory creative writing course, ENGL 1023 , is open to 
any student who has not taken an intermediate or advanced course in the writing of 280            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
ﬁction, poetry, or drama. Interested students need not submit a writing sample to 
gain admission to ENGL 1023 . Many of the more advanced creative writing courses 
require an application in advance, with admission based on the instructor's judgment 
of the student's work. Application details and forms for these courses are available on 
the department website. Students with questions about this process should consult 
the department registrar. Students may in some cases arrange a tutorial in writing 
(ENGL 3400 ), normally after having taken intermediate and advanced writing courses. 
All students interested in creative writing courses should also consult the current listing 
of Residential College Seminars.
FOUNDATIONAL COURSES
It is valuable for students majoring in English to have both a detailed understanding 
of major poets who have written in English and some acquaintance with the classics of 
American and world anglophone literature. All majors are accordingly required to take 
three of the four foundational courses from ENGL 1025 , 1026, 1027, 1028. Prospective 
English majors are strongly encouraged to complete these requirements by the end of 
the sophomore year. Those who did not enroll in the Directed Studies program should 
also consider taking both ENGL 1029  and 1030, foundational courses in the European 
literary tradition.
Students may substitute for one foundational course either (1) DRST 0001 and 0002, 
or (2) ENGL 1029  and 1030. If, due to a late change of major or other circumstances, it 
is impossible to take three foundational courses, students may satisfy the requirements 
of the major by taking, with permission of the DUS, two advanced courses that deal 
substantially and intensively with similar material. Note: while DRST 0001 and
DRST 0002 count together as one foundational course, they count as two courses 
toward the major.
Requirements of the Major
See Links to attributes indicating courses approved for the English major requirements.
At least fourteen courses are required for the major, including the senior requirement. 
Each student, in consultation with a departmental faculty adviser, bears the 
responsibility for designing a coherent program, which must include the following 
elements:
Each student must take: (1) three foundational courses chosen from ENGL 1025 , 1026,
1027, and 1028 (see exceptions above); (2) at least one course in each of the following 
four historical periods, as indicated in the course listings: Medieval, Renaissance, 
18th/19th century, 20th/21st century; (3) at least one literature (non-creative writing) 
seminar in both the junior and the senior years.
A student whose program meets these requirements may, with permission of the DUS, 
count as electives toward the major as many as two courses in other departments. 
One of these courses should normally be a literature course in English translation 
or in another language, and neither may be counted toward any requirement of the 
major. Certain Residential College Seminars, with permission of the DUS, may also be 
substituted for electives in the major.English Language and Literature         281
A student may count up to ﬁve introductory courses and up to two designated creative 
writing courses toward the English major. ENGL 1023  counts towards the introductory 
rather than towards the creative writing limit.
Library requirementEach English major must meet with Yale's Librarian for Literature 
in English or another research librarian within the ﬁrst four weeks of the term during 
which the student is fulﬁlling the ﬁrst of the two-term senior requirement for the 
major. Workshops will be oﬀered to fulﬁll this requirement.
Credit/D/Fail/uni2002No more than 4 course(s) taken Credit/D/Fail may be applied toward 
the requirements of the major, but they may aﬀect whether Distinction in the Major is 
granted.
Outside credit/uni2002Courses taken at another institution or during an approved summer or 
term-time study abroad program may count toward the major requirements with DUS 
approval.
The Creative Writing Concentration
The creative writing concentration is an intensive track for English majors who want 
more sustained work in creative writing. While there are many ways to pursue creative 
writing at Yale and within the English department, the creative writing concentration 
provides a structure for creative work and a community of support that many 
writers ﬁnd rewarding. The creative writing concentration is not a separate degree 
or certiﬁcate; it is a part of the English major and builds on the wealth of its literary 
oﬀerings. It aims to give English majors with demonstrated interest and achievement in 
writing an opportunity to plan the writing courses they take in a coordinated way and 
to do advanced work in tutorial. The creative writing concentration accepts students 
with demonstrated commitment to creative writing at the end of the junior year or, 
occasionally, in the ﬁrst term of senior year.
Students who enter the creative writing concentration must fulﬁll the same 
requirements as all English majors, except that they count four creative writing courses 
toward the major, including ENGL 4400 , a tutorial in which students produce a single 
sustained piece of writing or a portfolio of shorter works. It is expected that senior 
applicants will have completed by the end of the fall term the following: (1) at least two 
4000-level designated creative writing courses that require an application with a writing 
sample (previously, numbered 451 or higher), with at least one of these courses in the 
genre in which they plan to complete ENGL 4400  (i.e., poetry, ﬁction, nonﬁction, 
or drama) and (2) one designated creative writing course in another genre. Creative 
writing concentrators must complete at least eleven literature courses in addition to 
their creative writing courses, for a total of ﬁfteen courses. All courses numbered 1030 
or below count as literature courses. Residential College Seminars are not acceptable for 
credit toward the creative writing concentration, except by permission of the DUS. The 
creative writing concentration senior project may be oﬀered in partial fulﬁllment of the 
senior requirement. Concentrators should fulﬁll the senior library requirement in the 
term in which they do the literature component of their senior requirement.
Proposals for the creative writing concentration should be submitted to the English 
department oﬃce in 107 LC or online as directed on the department website, during the 
designated sign-up period in the term before enrollment is intended.282            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
Senior Requirements
Seniors must complete a two-course senior requirement consisting of one of the 
following combinations: (1) two senior seminars; (2) a senior seminar and a one-term 
senior essay; (3) a two-term senior essay, with permission of the DUS. For students 
in the creative writing concentration, the senior requirement is a senior seminar or 
one-term senior essay and ENGL 4400 , the senior project in the creative writing 
concentration. Each English major must make an appointment to meet with Yale's 
Librarian for Literature in English or another research librarian within the ﬁrst four 
weeks of the term during which the student is fulﬁlling the ﬁrst part of the two-term 
requirement for the major. A junior seminar in which the student, with the permission 
of the DUS and of the instructor, fulﬁlls the senior requirement may be counted as a 
senior seminar. At the start of term the student must arrange with the instructor to do 
any additional work necessary to make the course an appropriate capstone experience.
Senior seminar Senior seminars are designated “Senior Seminar” in the course listings, 
but they are open to interested juniors, as well. The ﬁnal essays written for senior 
seminars are intended to provide an appropriate culmination to the student's work in 
the major and in Yale College. Such essays should rest on signiﬁcant independent work 
and should be of substantial length. In researching and writing the essay, the student 
should consult regularly with the seminar instructor, and may consult with other 
faculty members as well. Senior seminars may only be counted toward the requirement 
beginning in the sixth semester of a student's course of study.
Senior essay The senior essay is an independent literary-critical project on a topic of 
the student's own design, which is undertaken in regular consultation with a faculty 
adviser. Writing a senior essay provides a structure for English majors who want the 
opportunity to explore a research topic in a more sustained and intensive way, as well 
as a community of support that many majors ﬁnd rewarding. It should ordinarily be 
written in an area on which the student has focused in previous studies. It may be 
written during one or two terms; single-term essays may be converted to two-term 
essays through application to the DUS. See the course listings for ENGL 4100  and 4101
for procedures. Students fulﬁlling the senior requirement through a two-term senior 
essay or through a senior essay and the senior creative writing concentration project 
must take a seminar during their senior year, but it need not be a senior seminar.
Prospectuses and applications for senior essays should be submitted to the oﬃce of the 
English department in 107 LC or online as directed on the department website, during 
the designated sign-up period in the term before enrollment is intended.
Advising
Students planning a program of study in English are strongly encouraged to consult 
a faculty adviser in the English department, the departmental representative in their 
residential college, or the DUS or Associate DUS for advice about their course choices.
By the fall of the junior year, each English major will have been formally assigned or 
have chosen a faculty adviser from the English department, and in consultation with 
that adviser completes a statement outlining progress in the major. Course schedules 
for all majors should be discussed with and approved by their faculty advisers. The 
DUS and the Associate DUS can also discuss and approve schedules, if necessary.English Language and Literature         283
For interdepartmental programs that include courses covering English literature, 
see Comparative Literature; Directed Studies; American Studies; African American 
Studies; Ethnicity, Race, and Migration; Theater, Dance, and Performance Studies; and
Women's, Gender, and Sexuality Studies.
Graduate school Students considering graduate work in English should be aware 
that a reading knowledge of certain classical and modern European languages is often 
required for admission to graduate study, and that a course orienting them to critical 
theory can be especially helpful preparation.
Combined B.A./M.A. degree program/uni2002Exceptionally able and well-prepared students 
may complete a course of study leading to the simultaneous award of the B.A. and 
M.A. degrees after eight terms of enrollment. See Academic Regulations, section L, 
Special Academic Arrangements, “Simultaneous Award of the Bachelor's and Master's 
Degrees.” Interested students should consult the DUS prior to the sixth term of 
enrollment for speciﬁc requirements in English Language and Literature.
SUMMARY OF MAJOR REQUIREMENTS
Number of courses Standard major—14 courses (incl senior req); Creative Writing 
concentration—15 courses (incl senior req)
Distribution of courses  3 courses chosen from ENGL 1025 , 1026, 1027, and 1028; 
1 course in each of four historical periods as speciﬁed (intro courses do not fulﬁll 
this requirement); 1 junior seminar; Creative Writing concentration—same, except 
4 designated creative writing courses including at least 2 4000-level workshops 
(previously, numbered 451 or higher) that require an application with a writing sample, 
one in the same genre as ENGL 4400 ; and 1 in another genre; at least 11 literature 
courses
Substitutions permitted DRST 0001 and 0002 or ENGL 1029  and 1030 may substitute 
for one foundational course (but count as two courses toward the major.) With DUS 
permission: two upper-level courses with overlapping material may substitute for one 
foundational course; up to 2 relevant upper-level courses in other departments may 
substitute for electives in the major; Residential College Seminars may substitute for 
electives in the major
Senior requirement Standard major—2 senior sems, or 1 senior sem and 1 senior 
essay (ENGL 4100 ), or a two-term senior essay (ENGL 4100 , 4101); Creative Writing 
concentration—senior sem or senior essay, and ENGL 4400
All seniors must meet with a research librarian in the ﬁrst term of their senior 
requirement.
FACULTY OF THE DEPARTMENT OF ENGLISH
Professors/uni2002Jessica Brantley, David Bromwich, Ardis Butterﬁeld, Jill Campbell, 
Joe Cleary, Jacqueline Goldsby, Langdon Hammer, Margaret Homans, Cajetan 
Iheka, Jonathan Kramnick, Stefanie Markovits, Feisal Mohamed, Stephanie Newell, 
Catherine Nicholson, John Durham Peters, Caryl Phillips, Marc Robinson, Caleb 
Smith, Katie Trumpener, Shane Vogel, Michael Warner, R. John Williams, Ruth Yeazell
Associate Professors/uni2002Joseph North, Juno Richards, Emily Thornbury, Sunny Xiang284            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
Assistant Professors/uni2002Anastasia Eccles, Marcel Elias, Jonathan Howard, Elleza Kelley, 
Naomi Levine, Joseph Miranda, Ernest Mitchell, Priyasha Mukhopadhyay, Joseph 
North, Juno Richards, Nicole Sheriko, Lloyd Sy
Professors in the Practice/uni2002Alison Bechdel, Michael Cunningham, Anne Fadiman, 
Donald Margulies, Meghan O'Rourke
Senior Lecturers/uni2002James Berger, Leslie Brisman, Richard Deming, Peter Grund, 
Heather Klemann, Cynthia Zarin
Lecturers/uni2002Felisa Baynes-Ross, Marie-Helene Bertino, Kate Bolick, Steven Brill, Alan 
Burdick, Lincoln Caplan, Danielle Chapman, Alison Coleman, Susan Dominus, 
Andrew Ehrgood, Craig Eklund, Greg Ellermann, Randi Epstein, Amity Gaige, Rona 
Johnston Gordon, Derek Greene, Jacob Halpern, Christopher Hawthorne, Samuel 
Huber, Rosemary Jones, Rachel Kauder Nalebuﬀ, Verlyn Klinkenborg, Timothy 
Kreiner, Sarah Mahurin, Christopher McGowan, Maggie Millner, Carol Tell Morse, 
Pamela Newton, Barbara Riley, Timothy Robinson, Pamela Schirmeister, Adam Sexton, 
Kim Shirkhani, Steven Shoemaker, Emily Skillings, R. Clifton Spargo, Margaret 
Spillane, Sarah Stillman, Jennifer Stock, James Surowiecki, Rasheed Tazudeen, Aaron 
Tracy, Seth Colter Walls, Ryan Wepler, Christian Wiman