Environmental Studies         289
Environmental Studies
Directors of undergraduate studies: Michael Fotos (michael.fotos@yale.edu) for 
B.A. students, Kealoha Freidenburg (kealoha.freidenburg@yale.edu) for B.S. 
students; www.yale.edu/evst
Environmental Studies oﬀers the opportunity to examine human relations with their 
environments from diverse perspectives. The major encourages interdisciplinary study 
in (1) social sciences, including anthropology, political science, law, economics, and 
ethics; (2) humanities, to include history, literature, religion, and the arts; and (3) 
natural sciences, such as biology, ecology, human health, geology, and chemistry. 
Students work with faculty advisers and the directors of undergraduate studies (DUS) 
to concentrate on some of the most pressing environmental and sustainability problems 
of our time: energy and climate change, food and agriculture, urbanism, biodiversity 
and conservation, human health, sustainable natural resource management, justice, 
markets, and governance.
Students may pursue either a B.A. or a B.S. degree within Environmental Studies. The 
B.A. program is intended for students who wish to concentrate in the social sciences 
and humanities. The B.S. program is intended for students interested in the natural 
sciences, especially ﬁelds such as environmental health and medicine, ecology, energy 
and climate change. Both degree programs culminate in a senior essay project that is 
commonly preceded by independent summer research.
Students must declare a major in Environmental Studies before the end of the second 
term of junior year.
Prerequisites 
The B.A. degree program has no prerequisites.
The B.S. degree program has prerequisites in mathematics, chemistry, life sciences, 
and a natural science lab. The prerequisites include a term course in mathematics, 
physics, or statistics selected from MATH 1120  or higher, or PHYS 1700 or higher, 
or S&DS 1000  or higher, or completion of the Certiﬁcate in Data Science; the 
two-term lecture sequence in chemistry or, for students qualifying for advanced 
placement in chemistry, one term of CHEM 1670  or higher; the two-credit BIOL 
sequence BIOL 1010 , 1020, 1030 and 1040, or EPS 1250; and a natural science lab*
such as those listed on the environmental studies website or by searching Yale Course 
Search (YC EVST BS Natural Sci Lab).
*Students who have taken approved ﬁeld science courses in Spring 2023 may substitute 
one such course for the natural science lab prerequisite.
Students in the B.S. program are advised to take chemistry and biology during the 
ﬁrst year before enrolling in the EVST core courses in the natural sciences. It is 
recommended but not required that students complete the prerequisites by the end of 
their sophomore year.
Requirements of the Major
See Links to the attributes indicating courses approved for Environmental Science 
major requirements.290            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
B.A. degree program The B.A. degree requires at least fourteen course credits, 
consisting of the core requirements, the concentration, and the senior requirement.
B.S. degree program In addition to the prerequisites, the B.S. degree requires at least 
twelve course credits, consisting of the core requirements, the concentration, and the 
two-term senior requirement.
B.A. core courses One course in statistics or mathematics selected from S&DS 1000  or 
higher, MATH 1100  and MATH 1110  or MATH 1120  or higher; two core courses in the 
humanities or social sciences and three core courses in the natural sciences. Students 
who complete the Certiﬁcate in Data Science are relieved of the statistics and 
mathematics core course requirement. Students may select core courses from among 
the list of approved core courses posted on the environmental studies website or by 
searching Yale Course Search (YC EVST Core BA Natural Scie and YC EVST Core 
Human/Social Sci). Completing one course in each core area before the end of the 
sophomore year is recommended.
B.S. core courses Two core courses in the humanities or social sciences and two natural 
science core courses from among the list of approved core courses posted on the 
environmental studies website or by searching Yale Course Search (YC EVST Core BS 
Natural Sci and YC EVST Core Human/Social Sci). Completing one course in each area 
before the end of the sophomore year is recommended.
Areas of concentration Students plan their concentration in consultation with the 
DUS. A concentration is deﬁned as six courses that provide analytical depth in a 
particular environmental problem or issue of interest, as well as disciplinary expertise. 
For the B.A. degree, one of these six courses must be an advanced seminar (YC EVST 
Advanced Seminar) that exposes students to primary literature, extensive writing 
requirements, and experience with research methods. For the B.S. degree, two of 
the six courses must provide interdisciplinary context to the concentration and three 
of the six courses must have the science (SC) distributional designation. Of the 
three SC-designated concentration courses in the B.S. degree program, at least two 
must have departmental numerical ratings of 1250 or higher. Concentrations include 
biodiversity and conservation, climate change and energy, environmental humanities, 
environmental justice, environmental policy, food and agriculture, human health and 
environment, sustainability and natural resources, and urban environments. Students 
also can design a unique concentration within the major, in consultation with the DUS.
Credit/D/Fail No course taken Credit/D/Fail may be applied toward the requirements 
of the major, including prerequisites.
Outside credit Courses taken at another institution or during an approved summer or 
term-time study abroad program may count toward the major requirements with DUS 
approval.
Senior Requirement
B.A. degree program For the B.A. degree, students most often complete one term of
EVST 4960, a colloquium in which they write their senior essay. Students writing the 
one-term essay must also complete an additional advanced seminar in the environment. 
The additional advanced seminar is in addition to the six-course concentration Environmental Studies          291
requirement. Two-term senior research projects require the permission of the DUS 
before the end of the second term of the junior year.
B.S. degree program For the B.S. degree, students complete two terms of EVST 4960.
Advising 
Summer Environmental Fellowship During the spring term, EVST majors may apply 
for the Summer Environmental Fellowship (SEF) to gain experience in the ﬁeld 
through research or internships in an area pertinent to their academic development 
or their senior essay project. Sophomores and juniors may arrange internships with 
nonproﬁt organizations, government agencies, or corporations. Rising seniors typically 
focus on research for their senior essay. You can ﬁnd a list of past SEF awards on the 
Environmental Studies website .
SUMMARY OF MAJOR REQUIREMENTS
Prerequisites  B.A.—no prerequisites; B.S.— one statistics, math, or physics course 
from MATH 1120 or higher, or PHYS 1700 or higher, or S&DS 1000 or higher, or 
completion of the Certiﬁcate in Data Science; two-term lecture sequence in chemistry, 
or CHEM 1670 or higher; BIOL 1010, 1020, 1030 and 1040, or EPS 1250; and one 
natural science lab
Number of courses  B.A.—at least 14 course credits, including the senior req; B.S.—at 
least 12 course credits, beyond prereqs and incl the senior req
Distribution of courses B.A.—6 core courses, as speciﬁed; 6 courses in area of 
concentration, including 1 adv seminar as speciﬁed; B.S.—2 core courses in humanities 
and social sciences and 2 core courses in natural sciences, as speciﬁed; 6 courses in area 
of concentration, 3 of which must have SC designation with 2 of the 3 numerically rated 
at 1250 or higher, and 2 must provide interdisciplinary context as speciﬁed
Senior requirement  B.A.—one-term senior essay, EVST 4960 and an adv seminar in 
the environment or, with petition to the DUS before the end of the junior year, a two-
term research project; B.S.— two-term research project, EVST 4960
FACULTY ASSOCIATED WITH THE PROGRAM OF ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES
Professors/uni2002Mark Ashton (School of the Environment), Michelle Bell (School of the 
Environment), Gaboury Benoit (School of the Environment), Ned Blackhawk (History and 
American Studies ), Mark Bradford ( School of the Environment), Derek Briggs ( Earth and 
Planetary Sciences), Gary Brudvig (Chemistry, Molecular Biophysics and Biochemistry) , 
Ingrid Burke (School of the Environment), Susan Clark (School of the Environment, 
Adjunct), Deborah Coen ( History), Michael Donoghue (Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, 
School of the Environment ), Michael Dove (School of the Environment, Anthropology), 
Robert Dubrow (School of Public Health), Anna Dyson (Architecture, School of 
Environment), Keller Easterling (Architecture), Menachem Elimelech (Chemical 
Engineering, Environmental Engineering), Daniel Esty (School of the Environment, Law 
School), Eduardo Fernandez-Duque (School of the Environment ), Walter Jetz (Ecology 
and Evolutionary Biology, School of the Environment), Ben Kiernan (History), Matthew 
Kotchen (School of the Environment, Economics), Douglas Kysar (Law School), William 
Lauenroth (School of the Environment ), Xuhui Lee (School of the Environment), Robert 
Mendelsohn (School of the Environment, Economics), Alan Mikhail (History), Jeﬀrey Park 
(Earth and Planetary Sciences), Peter Perdue (History ), Stephen Pitti (History, American 292            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
Studies), Alan Plattus (Architecture), David Post (Ecology and Evolutionary Biology), 
Jeﬀrey Powell (Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, School of the Environment), Daniel 
Prober (Applied Physics, Electrical Engineering, and Physics), Peter Raymond (School of the 
Environment), Paul Sabin (History), James Saiers (School of the Environment), Oswald 
Schmitz (School of the Environment, Ecology and Evolutionary Biology), Karen Seto 
(School of the Environment), Kalyanakrishnan Sivaramakrishnan (Anthropology, School 
of the Environment), David Skelly (School of the Environment, Ecology and Evolutionary 
Biology), Stephen Stearns (Ecology and Evolutionary Biology), Dorceta Taylor (School of 
the Environment), Gerald Torres (School of the Environment, Law), Paul Turner (Ecology 
and Evolutionary Biology), John Wargo (School of the Environment), John Warner 
(History of Medicine, American Studies, History), Michael Warner (English, American 
Studies), Harvey Weiss (Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations, Anthropology), Carl 
Zimmer (Molecular Biophysics and Biochemistry, Adjunct) Julie Zimmerman (Chemical 
Engineering, Environmental Engineering)
Associate Professors/uni2002Laura Barraclough (American Studies), Craig Brodersen (School 
of the Environment), Marian Chertow (School of the Environment), Kenneth Gillingham 
(School of the Environment, Economics, School of Management), Jennifer Raab (History of 
Art), Elihu Rubin (Architecture), Carla Staver (Ecology and Evolutionary Biology), David 
Vasseur (Ecology and Evolutionary Biology)
Assistant Professors/uni2002 Anjelica Gonzalez (Biomedical Engineering ), Krystal Pollitt 
(Engineering and Applied Science ), William Rankin (History, History of Science)
Senior Lecturers/uni2002Shimon Anisfeld, Carol Carpenter, Amity Doolittle, John Grim, Mary 
Evelyn Tucker, Marta Wells
Lecturers/uni2002Alan Burdick, Mary Beth Decker, Marlyse Duguid, Michael Fotos, Kealoha 
Freidenburg, Gordon Geballe, Robert Klee, Linda Puth, Catherine Skinner