Ethics, Politics, and Economics         293
Ethics, Politics, and Economics
Director of undergraduate studies: Gregory Collins (gregory.collins@yale.edu);
epe.yale.edu
The major in Ethics, Politics, and Economics joins the analytic rigor of the social 
sciences and the enduring normative questions of philosophy to promote an integrative 
and critical understanding of the institutions, practices, and policies that shape the 
contemporary world.
Introductory Requirements
Students must successfully complete eight introductory courses before they can 
declare as an EP&E major. Students are very strongly encouraged to complete these 
introductory courses before the beginning of their ﬁfth semester, because of the 
demands of the overall EP&E course load and the related need to demonstrate ability to 
complete the major.
After completion of introductory requirements, students may declare the EP&E major, 
following the process outlined on the EP&E website.
Introductory courses required to declare the Ethics, Politics, and Economics major 
include the following:
1. The Ethics course PHIL 1175  or Directed Studies*
2. A course in Other Perspectives, from disciplines such as Anthropology; Ethnicity, 
Race, and Migration; History; Sociology; Women's, Gender, and Sexuality Studies; or 
Directed Studies*
3. A course in Political Philosophy, choosing from PHIL 1178 , PLSC 1327 , 1335, 1352, or 
Directed Studies*
*Students completing two full terms of Directed Studies fulﬁll the ﬁrst three 
introductory requirements.
4. A Political Science introductory course in one of the following Political Science 
subﬁelds: international relations (PLSC 1113 ), comparative politics (PLSC 1413 ), or 
American politics (PLSC 1222 )
5. A course in Introduction to Microeconomics, choosing from ECON 1108, ECON 1110
or ECON 1115
6. A course in Introduction to Macroeconomics, choosing from ECON 1111 or
ECON 1116
7. A course in Econometrics, choosing from ECON 1117, 2123, 2135, GLBL 2121 ,
S&DS 2300 , or S&DS 2380
8. A course in Game Theory, choosing from EP&E 4220 , 4231, 4295, 4297, or
ECON 2159
Major REQUIREMENTS
See Links to the attributes indicating courses approved for Ethics, Politics, and 
Economics major requirements.294            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
Students must take ﬁfteen term courses including eight introductory requirements; 
Intermediate Microeconomics (ECON 2121 or 2125); three core seminars with one 
selected from the Classics series of EP&E courses (EP&E 3212 , 3213, 3214, 3215, 3216, 
or 3217) and the remaining two seminars selected from two of the three core areas 
of the major (Ethics, Politics, Economics); and three courses in the chosen area of 
concentration (which includes the senior requirement).
Intermediate microeconomics/uni2002Students must take ECON 2121 or ECON 2125.
Core courses/uni2002The major requires that students take three core courses: one course 
selected from EP&E 3212 , 3213, 3214, 3215, 3216, or 3217 and two additional core courses 
from the major’s three core areas (Ethics, Politics, Economics), one of which must be 
an advanced seminar anchored in at least two of the major’s three core areas of ethics, 
politics, or economics. The approved core courses, speciﬁed annually, can be found on a 
list of approved EP&E core courses on the EP&E website and by searching Yale Course 
Search for the following attributes: YC EP&E Ethics Core; YC EP&E Politics Core; YC 
EP&E Economics Core.
Areas of concentration/uni2002Each student deﬁnes an area of concentration with review 
by the DUS by the end of their junior year. The concentration enables students to frame 
an important problem and shape a systematic course of inquiry, employing analytical 
methods and substantive theories drawn from the three ﬁelds. For many students, 
the concentration treats a contemporary problem with a substantial policy dimension 
(domestic or international), but some students may wish to emphasize philosophical 
and methodological issues. The area of concentration culminates in the senior essay. 
Areas of concentration must consist of three courses appropriate to the theme, 
including the seminar or independent study course in which the senior essay is written 
(see “Senior Requirement” below.) At most, one of these three courses may be a lecture 
course. In designing the area of concentration, students are encouraged to include 
seminars from other departments and programs (see “graduate work” below.) Students 
are encouraged to include a seminar or a lecture that covers advanced research design 
and/or data analysis when the area of concentration requires it.
The following are examples of possible areas of concentration: distributive justice, 
government regulation of market economies, environmental policy, philosophy of 
law, gender relations, democracy and multiculturalism, contemporary approaches 
to public policy, war and coercion, war crimes and crimes against humanity, medical 
ethics, international political economy, philosophy of the social sciences, social theory 
and ethics, cultural analysis and political thought, and civil society and its normative 
implications. However, students may wish to frame their own area of concentration 
more precisely.
Credit/D/Fail/uni2002No more than one course taken Cr/D/F may be applied to the 
requirements of the major, excluding the seminar in which the senior essay is written. 
Courses that count toward major requirements do count as non-A grades in calculations 
for Distinction in the Major.
Outside credit Courses taken at another institution or during an approved summer or 
term-time study abroad program may count toward the major requirements with DUS 
approval. Ethics, Politics, and Economics         295
Senior Requirement
A senior essay is required for the major and should constitute the intellectual 
culmination of the student's work in Ethics, Politics, and Economics. The essay should 
fall within the student’s area of concentration. Students may enroll in EP&E 4491  to 
write a term-long essay; or in EP&E 4492  and EP&E 4493  to write a year-long essay. 
They must secure the approval of a faculty member who will serve as advisor for the 
essay. Alternatively, students may write their essay within a relevant seminar, with the 
consent of the seminar instructor to serve as the essay adviser, and approval of the DUS.
The senior essay reﬂects more extensive research than an ordinary Yale College seminar 
paper and employs a method of research appropriate to its topic. Some papers might 
be written entirely from library sources; others may employ ﬁeld interviews and direct 
observation; still others may require statistical or econometric analysis. The student 
should consult frequently with the seminar instructor or adviser, oﬀering partial and 
preliminary drafts for criticism. Students are encouraged to incorporate analysis using 
the tools of all three of the major’s ﬁelds.
Senior essays written in the fall term are due in early December. Senior essays written in 
the spring term and yearlong essays are due in mid-April. One-term essays are normally 
expected to be 40–50 pages in length; yearlong essays are normally expected to be 80–
100 pages in length.
Graduate work□
Some graduate and professional school courses are open to qualiﬁed undergraduates 
and may be of interest to EP&E majors, especially as potential concentration courses 
(e.g., courses in the Schools of Nursing, Forestry and Environmental Studies, 
Management, and Public Health). Permission to enroll is required from the instructor 
as well as the appropriate representative of the graduate or professional program. EP&E 
requires that graduate and professional school courses carry one full Yale College course 
credit, and it is important to note that not all such courses yield a full course credit in 
Yale College. See Academic Regulations, section L, Special Academic Arrangements, 
“Courses in the Yale Graduate and Professional Schools.”
summary of major requirements
Introductory requirements 8 introductory courses as indicated
Number of courses/uni200215 (including intro courses and senior requirement)
Speciﬁc courses required/uni2002ECON 2121 or ECON 2125
Distribution of courses /uni20023 core seminars (one of which is EP&E 3212 , 3213, 3214, 3215,
3216, or 3217) and 2 from the 3 core areas, one of which must be an advanced seminar; 3 
concentration courses including the senior requirement course
Senior requirement/uni2002Senior essay in area of concentration (in an advanced seminar or
EP&E 4491 , or EP&E 4492  and EP&E 4493 )
FACULTY ASSOCIATED WITH THE PROGRAM OF ETHICS, POLITICS, AND 
ECONOMICS
Director: Ana de la O (Political Science)296            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
Professors/uni2002David Cameron (Political Science), Stephen Darwall (Philosophy), Bryan 
Garsten (Political Science), Jacob Hacker (Political Science), Gregory Huber (Political 
Science), Shelly Kagan (Philosophy), Giovanni Maggi (Economics ), William Nordhaus 
(Economics ), Gerard Padro (Economics, Political Science), John Roemer (Political 
Science), Ian Shapiro (Political Science), Tony Smith, (Economics),  Jason Stanley 
(Philosophy), Peter Swenson (Political Science), Steven Wilkinson (Political Science)
Lecturers/uni2002Gregory Collins (Political Science), Kevin Elliott (Political Science), Michael 
Fotos (Political Science), Karen Goodrow (Political Science),  Stephen Latham (Political 
Science), Mordechai Levy-Eichel (Political Science), Max Lewis (Political Science), Daniel 
Schillinger (Political Science)