Ethnicity, Race, and Migration         297
Ethnicity, Race, and Migration
Director of undergraduate studies: Albert Laguna (albert.laguna@yale.edu) [spring 
2025]; ER&M website
The program in Ethnicity, Race, and Migration enables students to engage in an 
interdisciplinary, comparative study of forces that have created a multicultural, 
multiethnic, and multiracial world. The major emphasizes familiarity with the 
intellectual traditions and debates surrounding the concepts of indigeneity, ethnicity, 
nationality, and race; grounding in both the history of migration and its contemporary 
manifestations; and knowledge of and direct engagement with the cultures, structures, 
and peoples formed by these migrations.
Requirements of the Major
See Links to the attributes indicating courses approved for the Ethnicity, Race, and 
Migration major requirements.
Students must complete twelve term courses in Ethnicity, Race, and Migration, 
including the senior requirement. These twelve normally include ER&M 2000 , an 
introductory course on the issues and disciplines involved in the study of ethnicity, 
race, and migration. In the junior year, all majors are required to take ER&M 3000 , a 
seminar that introduces majors to scholarship in ethnic studies, postcolonial studies, 
and cultural studies. Students may take up to two courses required for the major in 
other departments, if the courses have content related to topics of ethnicity, race, and 
migration. These courses must be approved by the DUS.
Area of interest In consultation with the director of undergraduate studies (DUS), each 
student deﬁnes an area of interest consisting of six term courses, one of which must be 
a methods course; these interest area courses do not include the senior essay or project. 
Advanced work in a language related to a student's area of interest is advised.
Credit/D/Fail No more than two courses taken Credit/D/Fail may be applied toward 
the requirements of the major with permission of the DUS. ER&M 3000  and courses 
counting toward the senior requirement may not be taken Credit/D/Fail.
Outside credit Courses taken at another institution or during an approved summer or 
term-time study abroad program may count toward the major requirements with DUS 
approval.
Senior Requirement
There are two options for the senior requirement. Majors may choose a yearlong senior 
essay or project and take the senior colloquium (ER&M 4091 ) on theoretical and 
methodological issues in the fall and then complete the requirement by writing a senior 
essay in the senior project seminar (ER&M 4092 ) during the spring term. Alternatively, 
students may take two upper-level ER&M seminars, and in one of the seminars, with 
the instructor’s approval, write a ﬁnal paper of 20-25 pages in addition to completing 
other course requirements. These seminars may be taken during either the fall or spring 
term.298            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
Advising
Prospective majors should consult the DUS early in their academic careers to discuss an 
individual plan of study. Enrollment in the major requires permission of the DUS 
before the beginning of the fall term of the junior year.
As a multidisciplinary program, Ethnicity, Race, and Migration draws on the resources 
of other departments and programs in the University. Students are encouraged to 
examine other departments' offerings in the humanities and the social sciences, 
interdisciplinary programs of study housed in the MacMillan Center and elsewhere, and 
Residential College Seminars for additional relevant courses. The stated area of interest 
of each student determines the relevance and acceptability of other courses. Students are 
also encouraged to engage in community-based learning opportunities.
Study Abroad
Because of the major's emphasis on international and transnational work, students are 
encouraged to undertake a term abroad. They should consult with the DUS to identify 
courses from study abroad programs that may count toward the major.
SUMMARY OF MAJOR REQUIREMENTS
Prerequisites/uni2002None
Number of courses 12 term courses (incl senior req)
Speciﬁc courses required/uni2002ER&M 2000, ER&M 3000
Distribution of courses/uni20026 courses in area of interest, 1 of which must be a methods 
course; 2 additional courses with ER&M content and DUS approval
Senior requirement/uni2002Senior colloq (ER&M 4091) and senior essay or project 
(ER&M 4092); or senior essay in upper-level seminar and one additional upper-level 
seminar
FACULTY ASSOCIATED WITH THE PROGRAM OF ETHNICITY, RACE, AND 
MIGRATION
Professors Laura Barraclough (American Studies), Ned Blackhawk (History, American 
Studies), Alicia Schmidt Camacho (Ethnicity, Race, and Migration, American Studies), 
Michael Denning (American Studies, English), Fatima El-Tayeb (Ethnicity, Race, and 
Migration, Women’s, Gender, & Sexuality Studies), Roderick Ferguson (American Studies, 
Women’s, Gender, & Sexuality Studies), Daniel Martínez HoSang (American Studies, 
Ethnicity, Race, and Migration), Matthew Jacobson (American Studies, African American 
Studies, History), Grace Kao (Sociology), Lisa Lowe (American Studies), Mary Lui 
(American Studies, History), Stephen Pitti (History, American Studies), Ana Ramos-Zayas 
(American Studies, Ethnicity, Race, and Migration, Women’s, Gender, & Sexuality Studies), 
Kalindi Vora (Ethnicity, Race, and Migration, Women’s, Gender, & Sexuality Studies)
Associate Professors Zareena Grewal (American Studies, Ethnicity, Race, and Migration), 
Albert Laguna (American Studies, Ethnicity, Race, and Migration)
Assistant Professors Tarren Andrews (Ethnicity, Race, and Migration), Leigh-
Anna Hidalgo (Ethnicity, Race, and Migration), Hi’ilei Hobart (Ethnicity, Race, and 
Migration), Sunny Xiang (English)Ethnicity, Race, and Migration         299
Lecturers  Ximena Lopez Carillo (Ethnicity, Race, and Migration), Fadila Habchi 
(Ethnicity, Race, and Migration) Quan Tran (American Studies, Ethnicity, Race, and 
Migration)
Visiting Lecturer Gary Okihiro (Ethnicity, Race, and Migration, American Studies)