300            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
Ethnography Certiﬁcate
Certiﬁcate director: Jane Lynch (jane.lynch@yale.edu); ethnography.yale.edu
Ethnography is both a set of qualitative research methods employed in the humanities 
and social sciences and a mode of presenting that research—in books and articles, in 
ﬁlm and video, in embodied performance, and, increasingly, in digital formats and 
multiple media.
requirements
See Links to attributes indicating courses approved for the certiﬁcate requirements.
Students must successfully complete six courses. At least four of the six courses must 
be at the 3000-level or above. At least two of the six courses, including at least one at 
the 3000-level or above, must include substantial methods training and/or a practical 
ethnographic component. The minimum grade for all courses is a C.
Courses that fulﬁll these requirements are listed on the Ethnography Certiﬁcate website
and are searchable in Yale Course Search (YCS) using the following attributes: YC 
Ethnography Elective and YC Ethnography Methods. Other courses may be approved 
by permission of the certiﬁcate director.
Students must also attend two public talks or other events that feature ethnography and 
submit to the certiﬁcate director one page critical reﬂections on each of these talks. The
Ethnography Certiﬁcate website will maintain updated links to the Ethnography 
Hub, Ethnography and Social Theory Colloquium series, Workshop in Urban 
Ethnography, Qualitative Social Science Initiative, and other campus series that 
regularly feature ethnography-informed events.
Additionally, no more than two course credits may overlap in the fulﬁllment of the 
requirements of the Ethnography certiﬁcate and of a major, a simultaneous degree, or 
another certiﬁcate; and no course credit may be applied toward the requirements of 
more than two curricular programs. For example, the same course credit may not be 
used to fulﬁll the requirements of two certiﬁcates and a major. Approved graduate and 
professional school courses may count toward the certiﬁcate. Non-Yale courses may not 
count toward the certiﬁcate.
Credit/D/Fail No course taken Credit/D/Fail may be applied toward the requirements 
of the certiﬁcate.
Declaration of Candidacy
Students must declare their intention to earn a Certiﬁcate on the Declare Major, 
Concentration within the Major, Certiﬁcate page on Yale Hub, as early as possible, but at 
the very latest, by the 15th of January or September in their last semester at Yale. Once 
declared, Degree Audit tracks students' progress toward completion of the certiﬁcate.
Summary of requirements
Number of courses/uni20026 course credits
Distribution of courses /uni20024 courses at 3000-level or above; 2 courses indicated as 
methods course with 1 at 3000-level or aboveEthnography Certiﬁcate         301
Additional requirements/uni2002attendance at 2 public talks and submission of 1-page critical 
reﬂections for each