302            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
Film and Media Studies
Director of undergraduate studies: John Durham Peters (john.peters@yale.edu);
ﬁlmstudies.yale.edu/undergraduate
The major in Film and Media Studies focuses on the history, theory, criticism, and 
production of cinema and other moving-image media. Courses examine cinema and 
the broader landscape of audiovisual media as signiﬁcant modern art forms, and 
the contributions of moving-image media as cultural and communicative practices 
of enduring social signiﬁcance. As an interdisciplinary program centered in the 
humanities, Film and Media Studies oﬀers students latitude in deﬁning their course 
of study within the framework established by the Film and Media Studies Committee. 
With this freedom comes the responsibility of carefully planning a coherent and well-
focused program. Because of the special demands of Film and Media Studies and the 
diversity of its oﬀerings, potential majors are encouraged to consult the director of 
undergraduate studies (DUS) early in their academic careers.
Requirements of the Major
See Links to the attributes indicating courses approved for the Film and Media Studies 
requirements.
The Film and Media Studies major consists of twelve term courses, including the senior 
requirement. Students are required to take FILM 1501 , FILM 1601  and FILM 3201 , 
preferably by the end of their sophomore year. In addition, students are required to 
take one upper-level course in the study of representative ﬁlms from a non-American 
national cinema (e.g. German expressionist cinema, Italian cinema, or world cinema) 
and one upper-level course in critical studies: these are designated by attributes (YC 
FILM World Cinema, YC FILM Critical Studies) in Yale Course Search. Students also 
must take at least one course on the creative process in ﬁlm, designated by the attribute 
YC FILM Production in Yale Course Search. Courses taken outside the Film and Media 
Studies department do not count toward the major without the permission of the DUS. 
Admission to senior-level seminars is at the instructor's discretion, but the Film and 
Media Studies program ensures that every senior major gains admission to the required 
number of seminars.
The intensive major Students of substantial accomplishment and commitment to 
ﬁlm and media studies are encouraged to pursue the intensive major. Students in the 
intensive major complete a senior project in production and also write a senior essay. 
The intensive major in Film and Media Studies is intended for students who are not 
pursuing two majors. Students must request approval from the Film and Media Studies 
Committee at the end of their junior year by submitting a proposal that outlines their 
objectives and general area of study.
Credit/D/Fail No more than one course taken Credit/D/Fail may be applied toward the 
requirements of the major with permission of the DUS.
Outside credit Courses taken at another institution or during an approved summer or 
term-time study abroad program may count toward the major requirements with DUS 
approval.Film and Media Studies         303
Senior Requirement
During the senior year, each student takes one or two senior-level seminars or the 
equivalent and submits a senior essay or senior project, which should represent 
a culmination of work in the major and in Yale College. The senior requirement 
requires both critical writing and writing in images. Those undertaking creative 
senior projects should be expected to produce a paper of approximately ﬁfteen 
pages in which the student discusses such questions as the genre to be used in the 
project, existing precedents for the topic, and his or her strategy in working on the 
project. Those undertaking to fulﬁll the senior requirement by writing a senior essay 
should additionally take a course in which they are expected to do, minimally, a small 
production assignment.
See the Film and Media Studies website for dates and deadlines for the senior 
requirement. A second reader assigned by the DUS participates in evaluating the essays 
and/or projects.
Preparation for a senior project Those students hoping to produce a ﬁlm script or 
video as their senior project should make sure that they have taken enough courses 
in video production and screenwriting to be accepted into an advanced course in 
screenwriting or production. Senior creative projects in Film and Media Studies must 
be produced in conjunction with one such upper-level course. Students often start by 
completing FILM 1610 , 1620 by the end of their sophomore year, and continue with
FILM 3550 , 3560 by the end of their junior year, to prepare for FILM 4550 , 4560 or
FILM 4830 , 4840 in their senior year. Those students interested in screenwriting often 
begin with FILM 3500 . Students interested in ﬁlmmaking should also take courses in 
screenwriting, and vice versa. Some production courses are available in the summer 
program in Prague.
Senior project Students who wish to complete a senior project as an alternative to an 
essay must petition the Film and Media Studies Committee for approval of their project 
at the end of the junior year. Projects might include writing a screenplay in Advanced 
Screenwriting (FILM 4870 , 4880) or producing a video. Students electing such an 
alternative should note that the project must be undertaken and accomplished over 
two terms. A limited number of students making ﬁlms or videos are admitted to either 
the Advanced Fiction Film Workshop (FILM 4830 , 4840) or the Documentary Film 
Workshop (FILM 4550 , 4560), and receive three credits for their projects (two credits 
for FILM 4830 , 4840 or FILM 4550 , 4560, and one for FILM 4930  or 4940). Such a 
choice eﬀectively commits students to one extra course in addition to the twelve courses 
required for the major, because FILM 4930  or 4940 does not count toward the twelve 
required courses when taken in conjunction with FILM 4830 , 4840 or FILM 4550 ,
4560. Students may undertake a production project outside the workshops if (1) the 
Film and Media Studies Committee approves their petition, (2) they have found a 
primary adviser qualiﬁed and willing to provide the necessary supervision, and (3) they 
have identiﬁed the equipment necessary to execute the project. Such students may 
count FILM 4930  and 4940 toward the twelve courses required for the major.
Preparation for a senior essay/uni2002Students in their senior year may prefer to write 
a senior essay rather than work on a creative project. To prepare, they should take 
advantage of the variety of courses in ﬁlm and media history, criticism and theory 304            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
oﬀer
ed by the program, including such topics as American independent cinema, ﬁlm
theory, and African American cinema.
Senior essay /uni2002For the student writing a senior essay, several options are possible. First, 
the student may enroll in two terms of relevant senior-level seminars (usually courses 
numbered in the 4000s) and write a substantial term paper of twenty-ﬁve pages, 
double-spaced, for one of these courses. Second, the student may do independent 
research on a yearlong senior essay (FILM 4910, 4920). This option is intended for 
students with clearly deﬁned topics that do not relate closely to a senior-level seminar. 
Such research receives two terms of credit; the product of a two-term research essay 
is a work of at least ﬁfty pages. Third, the senior requirement may be completed by 
combining one single-term senior-level seminar with one term of an independent 
research project (FILM 4910 or 4920), resulting in a paper of thirty-ﬁve pages. 
Whichever option is chosen, the essay should be written on a topic informed by the 
student's previous coursework at Yale College. The student intending to write a senior 
essay should submit a brief prospectus, approved by the proposed faculty adviser, to 
the DUS by the end of reading week in their junior year. If this petition is approved, the 
student should plan to submit an updated and elaborated prospectus for ﬁnal approval 
by the DUS during the ﬁrst two weeks of the ﬁrst term of senior year. In researching 
and writing the essay, the student should consult regularly with the seminar instructor 
or adviser, supplying preliminary drafts as appropriate, and may consult with other 
faculty members as well.
Advising
Foreign languages Study of relevant languages is urged for all Film and Media Studies 
majors. Students considering graduate work should become proﬁcient in French or 
another modern language. Those choosing to study ﬁlm in relation to a foreign culture 
must have good listening and reading abilities in that language.
SUMMARY OF MAJOR REQUIREMENTS
Number of courses 12 term courses (incl senior req)
Speciﬁc courses required/uni2002
FILM 1501, FILM 1601 and FILM 3201
Distribution of courses 1 upper-level national or world cinema course as speciﬁed; 1 
upper level critical studies course; 1 production course
Senior requirement For senior essay—2 terms of senior-level seminars, or 2 terms of 
senior essay (FILM 4910, 4920), or 1 term of a senior-level seminar and one term of 
FILM 4910 or 4920; for senior project—2 terms of senior project in FILM 4550, 4560, or 
FILM 4830, 4840, and either FILM 4930 or 4940, for a total of 13 term courses; or 2 
terms of senior project in FILM 4870, 4880; or 2 terms of senior project in FILM 4930, 
4940 with approved petition
Intensive major Both senior project in production and senior essay
FACULTY ASSOCIATED WITH THE PROGRAM OF FILM AND MEDIA STUDIES
Professors *Marijeta Bozovic (Slavic Languages and Literatures, Film & Media Studies, 
Women ’s, Gender, and Sexuality Studies) *Francesco Casetti (Humanities, Film & Media 
Studies), *Marta Figlerowicz (Comparative Literature, English, Film & Media Studies) 
*Aaron Gerow (East Asian Languages and Literatures, Film & Media Studies), Brian KaneFilm and Media Studies          305
(Music, Film & Media Studies), *John MacKay (Film & Media Studies, Slavic Languages 
and Literatures ), *Millicent Marcus (Italian, Film & Media Studies), *Charles Musser 
(American Studies, Film & Media Studies), *Fatima Naqvi (German, Film & Media 
Studies), *John Durham Peters (English, Film & Media Studies), *Katie Trumpener 
(Comparative Literature, English, Film & Media Studies), Laura Wexler (American 
Studies, Women’ s, Gender, and Sexuality Studies),*R. John Williams (English, Film & 
Media Studies)
Associate Professors Moira Fradinger (Comparative Literature), Zareena Grewal 
(Ethnicity, Race, & Migration)
Assistant Professor/uni2002Neta Alexander (Film & Media Studies)
Professor in the Practice  Thomas Allen Harris (African American Studies, Film & 
Media Studies)
Senior Lecturer /uni2002Camille Thomasson (Film & Media Studies)
Lecturers/uni2002Jonathan Andrews ( Art, Film & Media Studies), Shakti Bhagchandani (Film 
& Media Studies ), Oksana Chefranova (Film & Media Studies),Claire Demoulin ( Film & 
Media Studies), Wanda Strauven ( Film & Media Studies)
Senior Lector/uni2002 Krystyna Illakowicz (Slavic Languages and Literatures)
Visiting Professor Leighton Pierce (Film & Media Studies)
*Member of the Film and Media Studies Advisory Committee.