Food, Agriculture, and Climate Change Certiﬁcate         307
Food, Agriculture, and Climate Change 
Certiﬁcate
Certiﬁcate director: Mark Bomford,  (mark.bomford@yale.edu ) Yale Sustainable Food 
Program (YSFP)
This interdisciplinary certiﬁcate prepares Yale College students for creative, critical, 
and unconventional engagement with multiple pressing challenges facing food and 
agriculture at local and global scales.
Central to the success of this certiﬁcate is the Yale Sustainable Food Program (YSFP) 
and the Yale Farm , which has served as a place of innovative hands-on learning on 
campus for over twenty years. Learning at the Farm is active, reﬂexive, embodied, 
and relational, and these qualities provide an enriching complement to the classroom 
regardless of the discipline. T he YSFP will support those enrolled in the certiﬁcate to 
draw out the important cross-disciplinary connections and contributions they can make 
to food and agriculture through the lens of their chosen major, even when the subject 
matter may appear only tangentially related at ﬁrst appraisal.
Requirements
See Links to the attributes indicating courses approved for the certiﬁcate requirements.
Students must successfully complete ﬁve courses (5 credits) from three areas that reﬂect 
the scope of the certiﬁcate: food, agriculture, and climate change.
1.Consumption  (food): 2 required courses; search YC Food Consumption in Yale
Course Search . These courses are concerned with the cultivation of plants for
harvest as food, feed, ﬁber, and fuel, and the husbandry or harvest of non-human
animals destined for human consumption.
2.Environment  (climate change): 1 required course; search YC Food
Environment in Yale Course Search. These courses concern the broad substrates
and surroundings of food and agriculture, particularly those linked to processes of
climate change.
3.Production  (agriculture): 2 required courses; search YC Food Production in Yale
Course Search . These courses are concerned with the broad practices of eating, both
as essential to human nutrition and health, and also inextricably entwined with
cultures, histories, values, identities, politics, and economies.
Students must also participate in 5 co-curricular events identiﬁed by the YSFP as 
directly supporting the academic goals of the certiﬁcate and write a 6–8 page 
(double-spaced) summary. The summary should reﬂect observations of a recurring 
theme, an area of controversy, and a proposed resolution. Students should conﬁrm 
eligibility for these events with the certiﬁcate director. The certiﬁcate director will 
provide more information about the scope and format of the written report.
No more than two course credits fulﬁlling the requirements of the Food, Agriculture, 
and Climate Change certiﬁcate may overlap with a major, a simultaneous degree, 
or another certiﬁcate. Additionally, no course credit may be applied toward the 
requirements of more than two curricular programs. For example, the same 308            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
course credit may not be used to fulﬁll the requirements of two certiﬁcates and a 
major. Graduate and professional school courses may count toward the certiﬁcate.
Courses accepted by Yale College for full course credit but taken outside of regular fall 
and spring semesters—for example, in the summer term or during a year abroad—can 
provisionally count towards satisfying the certiﬁcate requirements. Before considering 
such courses, students should consult with the certiﬁcate director.
Credit/D/Fail/uni2002No course taken Credit/D/Fail may be applied toward the requirements 
of the certiﬁcate.
Declaration of Candidacy
Students must declare their intention to earn a Certiﬁcate on the Declare Major, 
Concentration within the Major, Certiﬁcate page on Yale Hub, as early as possible, but 
at the very latest, by the 15th of January or September in their last semester at 
Yale. Once declared, Degree Audit tracks students' progress toward completion 
of the certiﬁcate.
Requirements of the Certiﬁcate
Number of courses/uni20025 course credits
Distribution of courses/uni2002 two courses in consumption area; one course in environment 
area; two courses in production area; 6–8 page summary of ﬁve co-curricular events