French         309
French
Director of undergraduate studies: Thomas C. Connolly
(thomas.connolly@yale.edu); Language program director: Candace Skorupa
(candace.skorupa@yale.edu); french.yale.edu
The Department of French has two distinct but complementary missions: to provide 
instruction in the French language at all levels of competence, and to lead students to a 
broad appreciation and deep understanding of the literatures and cultures of France and 
other French-speaking countries.
The major in French is a liberal arts major, designed for those who wish to study 
French-language literatures, arts, and cultures in depth. The department oﬀers courses 
devoted to authors, works, and literary and cultural movements that span ten centuries 
and four continents. The curriculum also includes interdisciplinary courses on relations 
between literature and other areas of study such as history, law, medicine, religion, 
philosophy, politics, business, translation, and the arts. Majors are encouraged to 
explore all periods and genres of literature in French, as well as a wide variety of critical 
approaches.
Excellent knowledge of a non-English language and a mature, informed appreciation 
of a non-English literature and culture can open doors to numerous professions. The 
French major provides ideal preparation for careers in a range of ﬁelds from law and 
diplomacy to journalism, teaching, academia, publishing, business, and the arts. 
Recent graduates have gone on to selective law schools, medical schools, and graduate 
programs in French and Comparative Literature. Others work in business, government, 
primary and secondary education, and a variety of nongovernmental agencies and 
international organizations.
French can be taken either as a primary major or as one of two majors, in consultation 
with the director of undergraduate studies (DUS). Regulations concerning the 
completion of two majors can be found in the Academic Regulations, section L, Special 
Academic Arrangements, "Two Majors."
Course Numbering
Group A courses/uni2002 (FREN 1000–1599) This group consists of courses that focus on 
all levels of language acquisition. Preregistration is required for all Group A courses 
except FREN 1250  and FREN 1450 . FREN 1210  (single-semester L1 and L2) is oﬀered 
only during the fall term. For this reason, students placed into L1 or L2 who were not 
enrolled in a fall-term course will have to wait until the next fall to enroll. For further 
details, students should consult Candace Skorupa,  (candace.skorupa@yale.edu) the 
language program director (LPD).
Group B courses/uni2002 (FREN 1600–4999 taught in French) This group contains 
more advanced courses that are taught in French and count toward the 
major. FREN 1600  and FREN 1700  are gateway courses that prepare students 
for courses numbered 2000 and above. Courses numbered FREN 1800–1999 are 
advanced-level professional language courses. The 2000–2999 range contains courses 
devoted to broad, general ﬁelds deﬁned by century or genre; the 3000–4999 range 
contains courses devoted to speciﬁc topics within or across those general ﬁelds.310            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
Group C courses /uni2002(FREN 2000–4999 taught in English) This group comprises courses 
taught in English, although readings may be in French or English. Two courses from 
this group may be counted for credit toward the standard major.
Language Placement Procedures
The departmental placement exam in French is accessible online. Dates and information 
for the exam will be available on the French department website, in the Calendar for the 
Opening Days of College, and on the  Center for Language Study website. Placement 
exam results remain valid for one year.
Students with previous exposure to French but who have not yet studied French at 
Yale should take the departmental placement exam to ascertain their current level of 
proﬁciency, including students who have participated in a non-Yale French language 
program.
Students who have earned superior scores on standardized tests may be able to enroll 
in a course designated L5, and should consult with the DUS for further information. 
The department generally recommends that advanced students of French take the 
departmental placement exam to be directed to the most appropriate courses. Students 
who earned a score of 5 on the Advanced Placement exam, a score of 6 or 7 on the 
advanced-level International Baccalaureate (IB) exam, a rating of C1 on the CEFR 
European test, or an A or B on the GCE A-level exam are normally placed into a course 
at the 1500 level and above.
Prerequisite
The prerequisite may be fulﬁlled by taking FREN 1500 , which should be taken during 
the ﬁrst or second year. In consultation with the DUS, students may instead choose to 
select a course numbered 1600-4999 to fulﬁll the prerequisite. Prospective majors are 
encouraged to take at least one literature course numbered 1700 or above before the end 
of the second year.
Requirements of the Major
See Links to the attributes indicating courses approved for French major requirements.
The standard major/uni2002The standard major consists of ten term courses numbered 1600 
or above, including a one-term senior essay (see below). One of these ten courses 
must be FREN 1700  which should be completed early in a candidate's studies, or, 
in consultation with the DUS, an equivalent course in French from the 2000–4999 
range; at least four must be Group B courses numbered 2000 or above. Majors may 
count no more than two courses in the FREN 1800–1999 range. No more than two 
courses conducted entirely in English (Group C) may count toward the major. With 
prior approval of the DUS, a maximum of four term courses taught outside the Yale 
Department of French but bearing directly on the student's principal interest may be 
counted toward the major. Up to two of these may be taken in other departments at 
Yale, and up to four may be taken as part of a year or term abroad, or summer study 
abroad program. However, the combined number of courses from other departments 
and from study abroad may not exceed four. The DUS may grant exceptions to 
this limit for students who spend two academic terms in an approved study abroad 
program. Relevant ﬁrst-year seminars may count toward the major, with permission of 
the DUS.French         311
The intensive major/uni2002 The intensive major is designed for students who wish to 
undertake a more concentrated study of literature and culture in French. It is 
recommended for students considering graduate study in French or in a related ﬁeld. 
The intensive major consists of twelve term courses numbered 1600 or above, including 
a one-term or two-term senior essay (see below). At least ﬁve courses must be from 
Group B numbered 2000 or above. The requirement of FREN 1700 (or an equivalent 
2000–4999 course), and the stipulations for courses in the 1800–1999 range, courses 
conducted in English, and courses taken outside the department are identical to those 
for the standard major.
Period requirement A minimum of one of the ten courses toward the major, or one of 
the twelve courses toward the intensive major, must deal predominantly with materials 
from the period preceding 1800. The pre-1800 course may be either a Group B course 
(taught in French) or a Group C course (taught in English). This requirement applies 
to all French majors, including those who opt for the standard or intensive translation 
concentration.
Translation concentration/uni2002 Students may elect to pursue the translation concentration 
within the French major. Translation concentration majors are expected to take a 
minimum of two courses in French translation as two of the ten credits required for the 
standard major, or as two of the twelve credits required for the intensive major. Within 
the department, this requirement can be fulﬁlled by taking FREN 3010 and FREN 3012. 
For their senior requirement, translation concentration students undertake a literary 
translation project of similar length to the senior essay (see below).
Credit/D/Fail  No more than one course taken Credit/D/Fail may be applied toward 
the requirements of the major (excluding the senior essay requirement).
Outside credit  Courses taken at another institution or during an approved summer or 
term-time study abroad program may count toward the major requirements with the 
approval of the DUS.
Senior Requirement
All majors must write a senior essay showing evidence of careful reading, appropriate 
research, and substantial independent thought. Essays may be written in either French 
or English and must be prepared under the direction of a ladder faculty member in the 
Department of French. Students planning to pursue advanced work in French after 
graduation are encouraged to write their senior essay in French.
Students writing a one-term essay  enroll in FREN 4910 in the senior year. A one-term 
essay may be written in either the fall or the spring term and should be approximately 
thirty pages in length. A preliminary statement indicating the general area to be 
addressed and the name of the adviser must be submitted to the DUS by April 14, 2025 
(fall-term essay), or November 3, 2025 (spring-term essay). A one-page prospectus 
and bibliography are due September 12, 2025 (fall term), or January 23, 2026 (spring 
term). A rough draft must be submitted to the adviser by October 27, 2025 (fall term), 
or March 23, 2026 (spring term). An electronic copy of the ﬁnal essay should be sent 
to the French department registrar by November 28, 2025 (fall term), or April 20, 2026 
(spring term).312            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
Students electing a two-term essay must select their subject and adviser before the end 
of the junior year and enroll in FREN 4930  and FREN 4940  during the senior year. The 
essay should be around sixty pages in length. A preliminary statement indicating the 
general area to be addressed and the name of the adviser must be submitted to the DUS 
by April 14, 2025. A one-page prospectus and bibliography are due September 12, 2025. 
Students must submit an initial rough draft to their adviser by January 23, 2026, and a 
complete draft by March 23, 2026. An electronic copy of the ﬁnal essay should be sent to 
the French department registrar by April 20, 2026.
Translation concentration majors undertake a literary translation project from French 
into English of similar length to the senior essay, working with a member of the French 
department ladder faculty. The senior translation project should include a critical 
introduction, of a length to be determined by the student in consultation with the 
directing faculty member. The same submission dates as for the one-term essay and 
the two-term essay apply to the senior translation project. Translation concentration 
students should sign up for FREN 4920  for the single-term senior translation project 
or for FREN 4950  and FREN 4960  for the two-term senior translation project, in the 
fall and spring terms respectively. Materials submitted for the senior translation project 
cannot be the same as the materials submitted for any translation courses that count 
toward a major at Yale College.
Advising
All students in the major are encouraged to take as many advanced courses as possible 
from all historical periods, covering as many genres and critical approaches as possible. 
As stipulated above, majors are also required to take at least one course dealing 
predominantly with pre-1800 materials. Candidates for the major should contact the 
DUS as early as the beginning of the sophomore year and no later than the fall term of 
the junior year. Students planning to study abroad or to petition for completion of two 
majors should contact the DUS during the sophomore year.
Special Divisional Major/uni2002The department will support the application of qualiﬁed 
students who wish to pursue an interdisciplinary course in French studies. Under the 
provisions of the Special Divisional Major, students may combine courses oﬀered by 
the French department with courses from other departments. Close consultation with 
the relevant departmental advisers is required. Candidates for the Special Divisional 
Major should consult the DUS in French by the fall term of the junior year. /uni2002
Study abroad/uni2002Majors are encouraged to spend a term or a year abroad, for which 
appropriate course credit may be granted. With prior approval of the DUS, summer 
study abroad may also receive course credit. Further information may be obtained 
from the Center for International and Professional Experience, from Yale Study 
Abroad, from the French Department's Study Abroad Coordinator, Constance Sherak
(constance.sherak@yale.edu), and from the DUS.
Combined B.A./M.A. degree program/uni2002Yale College undergraduate students 
of distinguished ability and extraordinary commitment who are interested in 
pursuing advanced research in French and Francophone literatures may undertake 
graduate work for the simultaneous award of the bachelor’s and master’s degrees 
after eight terms of enrollment. See Academic Regulations, section L, Special 
Academic Arrangements, “Simultaneous Award of the Bachelor's and Master's French         313
Degrees.” Interested students should reach out to the DUS prior to the sixth term of 
enrollment and consult the B.A./M.A. section on the French department’s website.
SUMMARY OF MAJOR REQUIREMENTS
Prerequisite/uni2002FREN 1500  or equivalent as approved by the DUS
Number of courses/uni2002Standard major and translation concentration—10 term courses 
numbered 1600 or above (including senior essay); Intensive major and translation 
concentration—12 term courses numbered 1600 or above (including senior essay)
Speciﬁc course required/uni2002FREN 1700  or equivalent as approved by the DUS
Distribution of courses/uni2002 Standard major—at least 4 courses in Group B numbered 2000 
or above; no more than 2 courses numbered FREN 1800–1999; no more than 2 courses 
conducted in English; one pre-1800 course;  Intensive major—same as standard, plus 
1 additional Group B course numbered 2000 or above; Translation concentration (both 
standard and intensive)— same as standard major with a minimum of two translation 
courses
Substitution permitted/uni2002With prior approval of DUS, up to 4 term courses outside 
French Department, as speciﬁed
Senior requirement/uni2002Standard major—one-term senior essay in French or English 
(FREN 4910 ); Translation concentration—one-term literary translation from French into 
English (FREN 4920 ); Intensive major—one-term (FREN 4910 ) or two-term senior 
essay in French or English (FREN 4930 , FREN 4940 ); Translation concentration, 
Intensive major—one-term senior translation from French into English (FREN 4920 ) or 
two-term literary translation from French into English (FREN 4950 , FREN 4960 )
Certiﬁcate of Advanced Language Study 
The French Department oﬀers a Certiﬁcate of Advanced Language Study to Yale 
College undergraduates who are not French majors.
Requirements 
Non-majors seeking to earn the Certiﬁcate of Advanced Language Study in French are 
required to take four courses beyond the L4 level, at least two of which must be Yale 
courses designated as L5. Additionally, the French Department requires that a minimum 
of one of the four required courses be a French Department course in French listed in 
the FREN 2000-4999 range. All courses must be taken for a letter grade, and students 
must achieve a grade of B or above. With the approval of the DUS, one advanced non-
L5 course, conducted in the target language, such as an independent study course 
(graded pass/fail) or a graduate seminar may count toward certiﬁcation requirements.
The DUS may allow one “language across the curriculum” (LxC) course 
taught in English to count toward the certiﬁcation requirements provided the course 
includes a weekly discussion section conducted entirely in French, and the student 
completes all readings and assignments in French. The discussion section must enroll 
a minimum of three students and the course must be designated as LxC in the course 
description.
The DUS may also approve up to two study abroad courses taught in French to count 
as electives toward the certiﬁcate requirements. If the DUS approves courses taken 314            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
outside of Yale for inclusion in the certiﬁcate requirements, students must take the 
necessary steps to ensure those courses appear on their transcript.
Credit/D/Fail/uni2002No courses taken Credit/D/Fail may be counted toward the 
requirements of the certiﬁcate.
Declaration of Candidacy
Students must declare their intention to earn a Certiﬁcate on the Declare Major, 
Concentration within the Major, Certiﬁcate page on Yale Hub, as early as possible, but at 
the very latest, by the 15th of January or September in their last semester at 
Yale. Once declared, Degree Audit tracks students' progress toward completion 
of the certiﬁcate.
Any questions relating to the Certiﬁcate of Advanced Language Study in French should 
be directed to the DUS or to the French Department Registrar Bethany Hayes 
(bethany.hayes@yale.edu).
Faculty of the Department of French
Professors R. Howard Bloch, Dominique Brancher, Ardis Butterﬁeld, Marlene L. Daut, 
Carolyn Dean, Kaiama L. Glover, Alice Kaplan, Pierre Saint-Amand, Maurice Samuels
Associate Professors   Morgane Cadieu, Thomas C. Connolly, Jill Jarvis
Senior Lecturer  Lauren Pinzka
Senior Lectors  Soumia Koundi, Matuku Ngame, Constance Sherak, Candace Skorupa
Lecturer  Nichole Gleisner
Lectors Ramla Bedoui, Léo Tertrain, Rachel Watson