German Studies         315
German Studies
Director of undergraduate studies: Sophie Schweiger
(sophie.schweiger@yale.edu ); Language program director: Theresa Schenker
(theresa.schenker@yale.edu)
The major in German Studies covers a broad tradition of more than ﬁve centuries in 
Germany, Austria, Switzerland, and neighboring lands. Students gain deep competence 
in the German language while also reading celebrated literature, analyzing distinctive 
artworks in many media, deducing intensive theories, and exploring political, linguistic, 
and cultural histories. The German faculty works closely with undergraduates to 
develop their special areas of interest within the rich currents of German culture.
German language courses emphasize listening, speaking, reading, and writing in 
interaction with authentic cultural materials. The curriculum also introduces students 
to the basic questions and methods of literary criticism, with a focus on rigorous 
reading practices for a wide range of works from diﬀerent genres, disciplines, and 
historic
al moments.
German Studies courses are diverse in their topics and highly relevant to other ﬁelds 
of study today. Pioneers in philosophy, political theory, sociology, psychology, history, 
classical philology, the visual arts, architecture, and music wrote and thought in 
German, as did founders of the modern natural and practical sciences. Majors discover 
Kant, Goethe, Beethoven, Einstein, Freud, Kafka, Arendt, and many other thinkers and 
writers who laid the groundwork for modernity and still hold keys to understanding it.
Germany is the fourth-largest economy in the world, and German is the ﬁrst language 
of over 95 million people worldwide. Students with a foundation in the language, 
literature, history, and intellectual revolutions of Germany are prepared to enter a wide 
variety of vocations. Majors have gone on to postgraduate study in Germany and the 
United States, and many have entered top-tier law schools and graduate programs. 
Recent graduates work in ﬁelds as diverse as environmental policy, journalism, 
arts management, consulting, and engineering, as well as in governmental and 
nongovernmental organizations and businesses.
Prerequisites 
Prerequisite to the major are ﬁrst- and second-year German or the equivalent.
Course Number
Group A courses/uni2002Courses in Group A (GMAN 1100–1590) correspond to Yale’ s L1 to 
L5 designa
tion of elementary, intermediate, and advanced language courses.
Group B courses/uni2002Courses in Group B (GMAN 1600-level and 1700-level) are advanced 
L5 courses. Readings are in German, and the language of instruction is German. There 
is no restriction on the number of Group B courses that may count toward the major, 
provided all requirements are met.
Group C courses/uni2002Courses in Group C (above GMAN 2000) are all other courses. 
The language of instruction is typically English, but readings may be in German and/
or English. Course level and prerequisites vary according to the expectations of the 
instructors.316            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
Placement Procedures
An online placement examination is accessible all year. See the department website for 
details. Students may also consult with the director of undergraduate studies (DUS) or 
the language program director for advice about placement and about language study. 
Regardless of previous German study, students without a score of 5 on the German 
Advanced Placement test must take the departmental placement exam in order to enroll 
in any course above GMAN 1100 or GMAN 1250.
Requirements of the Major 
See Links to the attributes indicating courses approved for the German Studies 
major requirements.
Students are held to the requirements that were in place when they declared their 
major. However, with approval from the director of undergraduate studies, the 
following requirements, updated for the academic year 2024–2025, may be fulﬁlled by 
students who declared the major in a prior term.
The requirements of the major in German Studies consist of ten term courses, 
including the senior essay. All majors must complete at least one GMAN course 
numbered in the 1500s, one in the 1600s, and one in the 1700s, plus six additional 
courses numbered GMAN 1600 and above.
Areas of interest/uni2002The Yale German Studies program oﬀers a variety of courses. 
Covered ﬁelds include (1) literature, (2) media and media theory, (3) history and 
politics, (4) critical thought, and (5) aesthetics and the arts. Students are encouraged 
to select courses based on their preference and may ﬁnd it rewarding to focus on one 
or more of these ﬁelds. Literature courses give students access to worlds of thought and 
action. Students learn to read critically poetry, novels, plays, short stories, aphorisms, 
songs, and other genres. Media and media theory  courses explore a vibrant tradition 
of experimentation in new cultural forms and media in the nineteenth and twentieth 
centuries. Students investigate photography, radio, ﬁlm, television, and computer 
media alongside landmark works in media theory. Courses in History and politics  focus 
on world-altering historical events and thought-altering theories of history from the 
Germanic tradition. Students become familiar with explosive political and social events, 
including the emancipation of the Jews and the Holocaust, the world wars, uniﬁcation 
and reuniﬁcation, and concepts and models for development in economy, social welfare, 
law, and environmental policies. Critical thought focuses on traditions of theoretical 
reﬂection on society, history, art, and language. Students become familiar with authors 
such as Kant, Hegel, Marx, Nietzsche, Freud, Benjamin, and Habermas. Aesthetics and 
the arts courses survey the rich Germanic traditions in the visual and musical arts, as 
well as the philosophical study of art beginning in eighteenth-century Germany.
Credit/D/Fail/uni2002No more than two courses taken Credit/D/Fail may be applied toward 
the requirements of the major, with permission of the DUS.
Outside credit  Courses taken at another institution or during an approved summer or 
term-time study abroad program may count toward the major requirements with DUS 
approval.German Studies         317
Senior Requirement 
Seniors in the standard German Studies major enroll in GMAN 4920 , a guided senior 
essay tutorial course. Students meet biweekly with the DUS and staﬀ, and work 
under the direction of a faculty adviser. The culmination of the tutorial is an essay 
of approximately thirty pages that gives evidence of careful reading and substantial 
independent thought. The essay may be written in either English or German, although 
only native speakers are encouraged to write an essay in German. Seniors typically 
write the essay during the fall term. A preliminary statement indicating the general 
area to be addressed and the choice of adviser should be submitted to the DUS by early 
September; the ﬁnal essay is judged by the faculty adviser and a second reader. See
Senior Essay Deadlines  on the Department of Germanic Languages and Literatures 
website for more information.
Intensive major/uni2002 Requirements for the intensive major are the same as for the 
standard major, except that the intensive major replaces one advanced seminar with a 
second term of the senior essay. In the fall term seniors in the intensive major enroll 
in GMAN 4920  and begin work on their project under the guidance and supervision 
of a faculty adviser. A signiﬁcant portion of the research for the essay should involve 
materials in German. The essay may be written in either English or German, although 
only native speakers are encouraged to write an essay in German. A detailed prospectus, 
no longer than three pages, and a bibliography must be submitted to the DUS by 
October 17, 2025. The student must submit a draft of at least ﬁfteen pages of the 
essay by November 24, 2025, to receive credit for the ﬁrst term of the course. The 
second term, GMAN 4930 , is devoted to completing the essay, which should be 
substantial (between ﬁfty and sixty pages); the completed essay must be submitted 
by April 10, 2026. The senior essay is judged by the faculty adviser and a second 
reader. See the Department of Germanic Languages and Literatures website for more 
information.
Advising 
Candidates for the major in German Studies should consult the DUS.
Graduate courses/uni2002 Courses in the Graduate School are open to undergraduates with 
permission of the instructor and of the directors of undergraduate and graduate studies. 
Course descriptions may be obtained on the German department website or from the 
oﬃce of the director of graduate studies.
Study Abroad
Students are strongly encouraged to study in Germany for a summer, or for one or 
two terms on the Year or Term Abroad program. Appropriate course credit toward 
the major is granted for work in approved programs in Germany. Study abroad is 
valuable not only for achieving comfortable ﬂuency in German, but also for gaining 
ﬁrsthand knowledge of the German cultural context. The department oﬀers diverse 
opportunities for study abroad and a scholarship program for summer courses at 
German universities. Members of the faculty advise and consult with any students 
wishing to plan study in Germany. Students who have been approved to study 
abroad and who receive ﬁnancial aid from Yale are eligible for aid while abroad. For 
information about the Year or Term Abroad program, see Academic Regulations, 
section K, Special Academic Programs, “Year or Term Abroad.” Students who study 
abroad for one term may count up to two courses toward the major, with approval 318            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
of the DUS. Students who study abroad for an academic year may count up to four 
courses toward the major, with approval of the DUS.
SUMMARY OF MAJOR REQUIREMENTS
Prerequisites/uni2002First- and second-year German or equivalent
Number of courses/uni200210 courses (incl senior req)
Distribution of courses/uni2002 At least 1 GMAN course in the 1500s, at least 1 in the 1600s, 
and at least 1 in the 1700s; 6 courses (numbered GMAN 1600  and above) from Groups 
B and C
Substitution permitted/uni2002With DUS approval, some substitutions and exceptions may 
be possible
Senior requirement/uni2002Senior essay tutorial (GMAN 4920 )
Intensive major/uni2002Two-term senior essay (GMAN 4920  and GMAN 4930 )
Certiﬁcate of Advanced Language Study
The Department of Germanic Languages and Literatures oﬀers a Certiﬁcate of 
Advanced Language Study in German. A certiﬁcate adviser, typically the director 
of undergraduate studies (DUS), advises students on the certiﬁcation process. The 
Certiﬁcate of Advanced Language Study, once certiﬁed, is listed on the student 
transcript.
Requirements
Students seeking to earn the certiﬁcate are required to take four courses beyond the L4 
level in their chosen language, at least two of which must be Yale courses designated as 
L5. All courses must be taken for a letter grade, and students must achieve a grade of 
B or above. With the approval of the certiﬁcate adviser, one advanced non-L5 course, 
conducted in the target language, such as an independent study course (graded pass/
fail), a graduate seminar, or an advanced seminar may count toward certiﬁcation 
requirements.
The certiﬁcate adviser may allow one “language across the curriculum” (LxC) course 
taught in English to count toward the certiﬁcation requirements provided the course 
includes at minimum a weekly discussion section conducted entirely in German. The 
discussion section must enroll a minimum of three students and the course must be 
designated as LxC in the course description.
The adviser may also approve the substitution of up to two credits earned during 
study abroad and taught in German to count toward the certiﬁcate requirements. If 
the adviser approves courses taken outside of Yale for inclusion in the certiﬁcate 
requirements, students must take the necessary steps to ensure those courses appear on 
their transcripts.
Credit/D/Fail/uni2002No courses taken Credit/D/Fail may be counted toward the 
requirements of the certiﬁcate.
Declaration of Candidacy
Students must declare their intention to earn a Certiﬁcate on the Declare Major, 
Concentration within the Major, Certiﬁcate page on Yale Hub, as early as possible, but German Studies          319
at the very latest, by the 15th of January or September in their last semester at 
Yale. Once declared, Degree Audit tracks students' progress toward completion 
of the certiﬁcate.
FACULTY OF THE DEPARTMENT OF GERMANIC LANGUAGES AND 
LITERATURES
Professors/uni2002Rüdiger Campe, Rahel Jaeggi (Visiting Fall 2025), Fatima Naqvi, Paul 
North, Brigitte Peucker, Kirk Wetters (Chair)
Assistant Professor Sophie Schweiger
Senior Lectors II/uni2002 Marion Gehlker, Theresa Schenker
Lectors/uni2002Austen Hinkley, Joshua Price
Aﬃliated Faculty/uni2002Jeﬀrey Alexander (Sociology), Jennifer Allen ( History), Seyla 
Benhabib (Political Science), David Cameron (Political Science), Paul Franks (Philosophy, 
Judaic Studies ), Gundula Kreuzer ( Music), Patrick McCreless (Music), Steven Smith 
(Political Science), David Sorkin (History), Nicola Suthor (History of Art), Katie 
Trumpener (Comparative Literature, English), Jay Winter (History)