324            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
Global Health Studies Certiﬁcate
Program director and chair: Catherine Panter-Brick; (catherine.panter-
brick@yale.edu) Director of undergraduate studies: Cara Fallon
(cara.fallon@yale.edu); Global Health Studies Program
Global Health Studies certiﬁcate
The Global Health Studies Program prepares students to critically engage with global 
health and its multifaceted concerns in contemporary societies. Global health is an 
interdisciplinary ﬁeld, and as such, students develop a sophisticated understanding of 
the roles of politics, history, and economics, engage with the insights of anthropology, 
ethics, law, and sociology, and relate this knowledge to public health and the biomedical 
sciences. Students will be expected to complete interdisciplinary coursework to gain a 
broad understanding of global health research, practice, and leadership.
Students apply to the Program, typically in the fall of their sophomore year. Those 
accepted into the Program are called "Global Health Scholars." Global Health Scholars 
are expected to complete interdisciplinary coursework across four global health 
competency areas chosen from six options: Biological & Environmental Inﬂuences on 
Health (YC GLHTH Bio & Env Inﬂuences); Health & Societies (YC GLHTH Health 
& Societies); Historical Approaches (YC GLHTH Hist Approaches); Performance, 
Representation & Health (YC GLHTH Perf, Rep & Health); Political Economy & 
Governance in Health (YC GLHTH Polit Econ & Govern); and Understanding & 
Interpreting Quantitative Data (YC GLHTH Quantitative Data).
Moreover, in the summer after junior year, Scholars can apply for funding support to 
pursue mentored experiential learning projects (such as internships, archival work, or 
ﬁeld-based research). During their senior year, they enroll in a colloquium course that 
meaningfully integrates the skills and knowledge acquired throughout the Program.
requirements
See Links to the attributes indicating courses approved for the certiﬁcate requirements.
To fulﬁll the requirements of the program, Scholars must complete the global health 
introductory lecture course (HLTH 2300), senior colloquium (HLTH 4900), and four 
elective courses that fulﬁll four of the global health competency areas. Upon completion 
of the Global Health Studies Program, Scholars earn a Global Health Studies certiﬁcate.
No more than two course credits fulﬁlling the requirements of the Global Health 
Studies certiﬁcate may overlap with a major, a simultaneous degree, or another 
certiﬁcate. Additionally, no course credit may be applied toward the requirements of 
more than two curricular programs. For example, the same course credit may not be 
used to fulﬁll the requirements of two certiﬁcates and a major.
Qualiﬁed undergraduates may take graduate courses at the School of Public Health, 
subject to restrictions on graduate and professional school enrollment described in 
Academic Regulations, section L, Special Academic Arrangements. Further information 
about these courses can be found in the School of Public Health online bulletin. For 
information about the ﬁve-year B.A.–B.S./M.P.H. program oﬀered jointly with the 
School of Public Health, see Public Health.Global Health Studies Certiﬁcate          325
Credit/D/Fail/uni2002 No more than 1 course taken Credit/D/Fail may be applied toward the 
Global Health Studies requirements, with the exception of the Senior Colloquium, 
which must be taken for a letter grade.
Outside credit Courses taken at another institution or during an approved summer 
or term-time study abroad program may count toward the program requirements 
with DUS approval.
Summar
y of requirements
Prerequisite/uni2002None
Number of courses/uni20026 courses (incl senior req)
Speciﬁc course required HLTH 2300
Distribution of courses 
 4 electives to achieve four of the six global health 
compe
tencies as indicated
Senior requirement/uni2002HLTH 4900, Senior colloquium