320            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
Global Aﬀairs
Dir
ector of undergraduate studies: Bonnie Weir (bonnie.weir@yale.edu);
jackson.yale.edu/academics/the-global-aﬀairs-major/
The Global Aﬀairs major gives students multidisciplinary training to understand and 
addr
ess challenges that we confront as concerned citizens of the world. By their nature, 
these challenges demand ﬂuency in the approaches and frameworks from multiple 
disciplines in the social sciences and humanities as well as an ability to translate 
between scholarship and practice.
The Global Aﬀairs major prepares Yale students for global citizenship and service 
w
hile giving them the ﬂexibility to shape their own curriculum according to their 
interests and ambitions. For example, students have concentrated their coursework 
on human rights and humanitarianism, economic development and poverty, global 
health, international relations, global environmental policy, and foreign policy and 
diplomacy, with topics relevant to national and human security.
Courses for Nonmajors
Most Global Aﬀairs courses are open to both majors and nonmajors. If a Global Aﬀairs 
course r
equires an application, the application will be posted on the Jackson School of 
Global Aﬀairs website.
Prerequisites 
There are no prerequisites for the Global Aﬀairs major. However, students interested in 
applying to the major are strongly encouraged to take introductory economics, political 
science, and history courses as indicated in the Requirements of the Major during their 
ﬁrst year and the fall of their sophomore year. Prospective students are also encouraged 
to work toward the L4 language requirement early in their course planning. All students 
interested in applying to the Global Aﬀairs major should also plan to take GLBL 2121 
in the fall of their sophomore year (and not beforehand). Enrollment in or completion 
of any introductory courses as well as enrollment in GLBL 2121 are considered at the 
time of application.
Requirements of the Major
Students are held to the requirements in place when they were accepted into the 
Global Affairs major. The following requirements, updated for the academic year 2025–
2026, must be fulﬁlled by students accepted into the major in fall 2025 and beyond.
See Links to the attributes indicating courses approved for Global Affairs 
major requirements.
Fourteen term courses are required for the major in addition to an L4 language 
requirement. Students must take introductory microeconomics (ECON 1108, 1110, or  
1115) and macroeconomics (ECON 1111 or 1116); two introductory Political Science 
courses from different subdisciplines: PLSC 1113 (International Relations), PLSC 1413  
(Comparative Politics), or one of the following political theory courses: PLSC 1327,  1335, 
1352, DRST 0005, or DRST 0006; and two History courses. Students are also required 
to take two courses in quantitative analysis: GLBL 2121 (Applied Quantitative Analysis 
I) and GLBL 2122 (Applied Quantitative Analysis II); two advanced courses:Global Aﬀairs         321
GLBL 3101 (Challenges in Global Aﬀairs) and one course covering game theory 
(GLBL 2159/ECON 2159), intermediate micro- or macroeconomics (ECON 2121 or 
ECON 2122), or an approved qualitative methods course (these courses carry the YC 
GLBL Qualitative Methods attribute). GLBL 2121 and GLBL 2122 may not count as 
electives. Majors also must take three global aﬀairs electives from an approved group 
of courses in the departments of Global Aﬀairs, History, Political Science, Economics, 
or other departments (these courses carry the YC GLBL elective attribute). Finally, 
students complete a senior project, either in GLBL 4499, a senior Capstone project, 
or as a senior essay either in a seminar of their choosing or in GLBL 4500, the global 
aﬀairs senior essay course.
Language requirement /uni2002Global Aﬀairs majors are required to take a course designated 
L4 in a mode
rn language other than English.
Credit/D/Fail/uni2002No course taken Credit/D/Fail may be applied to the requirements of 
the major, with the exception of a Cr (credit) grade in an L4 language course that may 
be used to demonstrate proﬁciency in a foreign language.
Outside credit Courses taken at another institution or during an approved summer or 
te
rm-time study abroad program may count toward the major requirements with DUS 
approval.
Senior Requirement 
Majors have three options to fulﬁll the senior requirement: They may complete a 
Capstone project in GLBL 4499, write a senior essay in a substantive seminar, or write a 
senior essay in the global aﬀairs senior essay course GLBL 4500.
I
n capstone projects, small groups of students are each assigned to a policy task force 
in which they apply their academic training to a speciﬁc real-world problem relevant to 
global aﬀairs. Each task force presents its ﬁndings and recommendations to an external 
partner such as a government agency, a nongovernmental organization or nonproﬁt 
group, or a private-sector organization in the United States or abroad. Capstones are 
completed only in the fall of the senior year (or, in the case of fall graduates, in the ﬁnal 
semester).
Students may instead choose to complete a senior essay in either the fall or spring 
term of senior year, either in a substantive seminar of their choice or in the global 
aﬀairs senior essay course GLBL 4500. Students are responsible for securing their own 
academic advisor and a secondary reader in either case. Any current faculty member of 
Yale University may serve as a senior essay advisor and/or secondary reader.
Advising and Application to the Major 
Students apply to the Global Aﬀairs major in the fall of the sophomore year. The 
number of students accepted into the major is limited and selection is competitive. The 
call for applications is posted each year on the Jackson School of Global Aﬀairs website, 
circulated through the residential college deans' oﬃ ces, and noted on the Advising 
Resources website. For application information, visit the Jackson School of Global 
Aﬀairs website .322            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
Internships/uni2002Students in the major are encouraged to take a summer internship in the 
ﬁeld of Global Aﬀ airs after their junior year. The Jackson School Career Development 
Oﬃce can help students ﬁnd appropriate internships.
Study Abroad/uni2002Courses taken at another institution or during a summer or term-time 
study abroad program may count toward the major requirements with DUS approval 
after the credit has transferred to Yale. Courses taken abroad may count only as electives 
or, in rare instances, as introductory courses in the major. Global A ﬀairs majors who 
plan to study abroad should therefore consult the DUS to devise a course of study prior 
to the term abroad, and to seek provisional approval for the proposed credit. Up to 
one summer term course and up to two courses per semester abroad may, with DUS 
approval, be counted toward the major requirements, with a total limit of four such 
credits./uni2002
SUMMARY OF MAJOR REQUIREMENTS
Prerequisites/uni2002None
Number of courses/uni200214 (incl senior req; excl lang req)
Speciﬁc courses required /uni2002GLBL 2121; GLBL 2122; GLBL 3101 
Distribution of courses/uni20022 introductory Economics courses, one 
from ECON 1108, ECON 1110, or ECON 1115, and one from 
either ECON 1111 or ECON 1116; 2 Political Science courses from diﬀ erent 
subdisciplines, as indicated; 2 History courses; 1 adv course in intermediate micro- or 
macroeconomics, game theory, or an approved qualitative methods course; 3 approved 
electives
Language requirement/uni2002 L4 in one modern language other than English
Substitution permitted/uni2002 With DUS approval, GLBL 2121 may be replaced by other  
analysis courses identiﬁed by Global Aﬀairs
Senior requirement/uni2002 GLBL 4499 or GLBL 4500 or in an approved senior seminar
FACULTY ASSOCIATED WITH THE PROGRAM OF GLOBAL AFFAIRS
Professors  Lorenzo Caliendo (Economics, School of Management), David 
Engerman (History), Jennifer Gandhi (Political Science), Pinelopi Goldberg (Economics, 
School of Management), Paul Kennedy ( History), Amit Khandelwal (Economics), James 
Levinsohn (Dean ) (School of Management), Christopher Neilson (Economics),  Catherine 
Panter-Brick (Anthropology), Laura Robson (History), Ken Scheve (Political Science), Ian 
Shapiro (Political Science), Timothy Snyder (History), Aleh Tsyvinski (Economics), Arne 
Westad (History)
Associate Professors Kate Baldwin (Political Science), Alden Young (History)
Assistant Professors Lauren Falcao Bergquist (Economics), Mayara Felix (Economics)
Senior Lecturers/uni2002Marnix Amand (Economics), Teresa Chahine (School of Management), 
Cara Fallon (Global Health), Asha Rangappa, David Simon, Justin Thomas, Bonnie 
Weir, Edward WittensteinGlobal Aﬀairs          323
Lecturers/uni2002Eric Braverman, Michael Brenes, Christopher Fussell, Ardina Hasanbasri, 
Robert Hecht, Phil Kaplan, William Casey King, David Morse, Graeme Reid, Emma 
Sky, Rory Stewart, Jed Sundwall, Matthew Trevithick, Daniel Wilkinson