332            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
History of Art
Director of undergraduate studies: Craig Buckley, (craig.buckley@yale.edu)  
arthistory.yale.edu
Art history is the study of all forms of art, architecture, and visual culture in their social 
and historical contexts. The History of Art major can serve either as a general program 
in the humanities or as the groundwork for more specialized training. Unless otherwise 
indicated, all courses in History of Art are open to all students in Yale College.
Course Numbering
1000-level courses are broad introductory lecture courses that address basic art 
history from a number of thematic perspectives. Prospective majors are encouraged, 
but not required, to take these courses as early in their course of study as possible. 
Under certain circumstances, students who have taken the Advanced Placement test 
in art history may earn acceleration credit and, in consultation with the director of 
undergraduate studies (DUS), may substitute an upper-level class for one required 
1000-level course.
Intermediate and advanced courses, numbered above 2000, encompass more specialized 
surveys and themes in art history.
Requirements of the Major
See Links to the attributes indicating courses approved for History of Art 
major requirements.
Twelve term courses are required to complete the major: two introductory courses at 
the 1000 level; four intermediate and advanced courses at the 2000 and 3000 levels; two 
seminars at the 3500– 4497 level; a methods seminar, HSAR 4401; two electives; and the 
senior essay, HSAR 4499.
The major requires that the six intermediate and advanced courses must satisfy both 
a geographical and a chronological distribution requirement. These courses must 
be chosen from four geographical areas and four time periods. The geographical 
requirement is divided into ﬁve areas: Africa and the Paciﬁc; the Americas; Asia and 
the Near East; Europe; and transregional. The chronological requirement is similarly 
divided into ﬁve segments: earliest times to 800; 800–1500; 1500–1800; 1800 to the 
present; and transchronological. A single course can fulﬁll both a geographical and a 
chronological requirement. Only classes originating in the History of Art department 
can fulﬁll the distribution requirements.
Junior seminar The methods seminar HSAR 4401, Critical Approaches to Art History, 
is a wide-ranging introduction to the practices of the art historian and the history of the 
discipline. It is to be taken during the fall or spring term of the junior year.
Credit/D/Fail courses No course taken Credit/D/Fail may be applied toward the 
requirements of the major.
Senior Requirement
The senior essay is a research paper written usually in one term in HSAR 4499. 
Students choose their own topics, which may derive from research done in an earlier 
course. The essay is planned during the previous term in consultation with a qualiﬁed History of Art         333
instructor and/or with the DUS. It is also possible to write a two-term senior essay, 
however students wishing to do so must submit a petition to the DUS and the 
prospective adviser, normally by the ﬁrst week after spring break of the junior year.
Advising
Electives may include courses from other departments if they have direct relevance to 
the major program of study. Approval of the DUS is required.
History of Art majors are urged to study foreign languages. Students considering 
graduate work should discuss with their advisers the appropriate language training for 
their ﬁeld of interest.
Graduate courses Courses in the Graduate School are open to undergraduates with 
pe
rmission of the instructor and of the director of graduate studies. Course descriptions 
are available in the History of Art o ﬃce in the Jeﬀrey H. Loria Center, 190 York St.
SUMMARY OF MAJOR REQUIREMENTS
Prerequisites None
Number of courses
 12 term courses (incl senior req)
Speciﬁc courses required HSAR 4401
Distribution of courses 2 courses at 1000 level; 6 intermediate or adv courses, as 
speciﬁed, w
hich must fulﬁll distribution requirements in 4 geographical and 4 
chronological categories; 2 electives
Substitution permitted With DUS permission, electives from related depts
Senior requirement Senior essay (HSAR 4499)
FACUL
TY OF THE DEPARTMENT OF HISTORY OF ART
Professors/uni2002Carol Armstrong, Tim Barringer, Marisa Bass, Edward S. Cooke, Jr., 
Milette Gaifman, Jacqueline Jung, Pamela Lee, Jennifer Raab, Kishwar Rizvi, Nicola 
Suthor, Mimi Yiengpruksawan
Associate Professors /uni2002Molly Brunson (Slavic Languages and Literatures), Craig Buckley
Assistant Professors/uni2002Nana Adusei-Poku, Allison Caplan, Alexander Ekserdjian, Joanna 
Fiduccia, Morgan Ng, Quincy Ngan, Catalina Ospina, Justin Willson