334            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
History of Science, Medicine, and Public Health
Director of undergraduate studies:  Ivano Dal Prete  (ivano.dalprete@yale.edu ), HQ 
253; hshm.yale.edu
History of Science, Medicine, and Public Health is an interdisciplinary program that 
focuses on how diﬀerent forms of knowledge and technology have been created in 
various times, places, and cultures, and how they have shaped the modern world. The 
major explores a wide range of questions. Is science universal, or does each culture 
have its own approach to trustworthy knowledge? What is the relationship between 
medical expertise, social and racial inequality, and everyday life? What is the nature 
of technology and its relationship to political, economic, and military power? Why do 
even the best public health campaigns have unintended consequences?
Course topics include the history of American and Western medicine and public health, 
medicine and race from the slave trade to the present, health and healing in Africa, 
scientiﬁc knowledge production in the global South, institutions of conﬁnement, health 
activism, biotechnology, the history of the earth sciences, climate change and planetary 
catastrophe, the scientiﬁc revolution, scientiﬁc collections, and material culture.
A major in History of Science, Medicine, and Public Health oﬀers excellent preparation 
for a wide range of careers. Premedical students and others interested in health-related 
ﬁelds can combine preprofessional training with a broad humanistic education. The 
major also provides a solid foundation for any career at the intersection of the sciences, 
technology, and public life, including law, business, journalism, museum work, public 
policy, and government.
Requirements of the Major 
See Links to the attributes indicating courses approved for the major requirements.
The major in History of Science, Medicine, and Public Health requires twelve 
term courses (and twelve credits), including the two-term senior requirement. 
Students select a concentration of seven courses that guide them through an area of 
specialization. The seven concentration courses must include two courses in History of 
Science, Medicine, and Public Health; one seminar in History of Science, Medicine, and 
Public Health or in History; one full-credit science course; and three electives chosen 
from relevant courses in any department. At least one HSHM (or HIST) seminar must 
be taken before the senior year.
Concentrations /uni2002The seven standard concentrations in the major are: Colonialism, 
Knowledge, and Power; Environment and Society; Gender, Reproduction, and the 
Body; Media, Information, and the Public; Medicine and Public Health; Minds 
and Brains; Science, Technology, and Society. Students may also design customized 
concentrations in consultation with the director of undergraduate studies (DUS). No 
later than the beginning of the junior year, students in the major must select a standard 
concentration or indicate that they wish to design their own.
See the Concentrations section for more information.
Electives/uni2002Beyond the seven concentration courses, students must complete three 
additional electives in History of Science, Medicine, and Public Health. One of the 
electives must be a seminar, and one must be chosen from a concentration other than History of Science, Medicine, and Public Health         335
the one selected for the major. All courses for the major are chosen in collaboration with 
the student’ s adviser.
Credit/D/Fail/uni2002 No more than one History of Science, Medicine, and Public Health 
course taken Credit/D/Fail may be applied toward the requirements of the major, and 
this course must be taken before the ﬁfth term of enrollment.
Outside credit Courses taken at another institution or during an approved summer or 
term-time study abroad program may count toward the major requirements with DUS 
approval.
Senior Requirement 
Students are held to the requirements that were in place when they declared 
their major. However, with approval from the director of undergraduate studies 
(DUS), the following senior requirements, updated for the academic year 
2024–2025, may be fulﬁlled by students who declared the major in a prior term.
Students must complete a two-term senior project in HSHM 4900 and 4910. The 
Senior Project Workshop, HSHM 4200, may be taken as an elective (for half-credit) 
in addition to HSHM 4900 and 4910. Note, that enrolling in HSHM 4200 will be in 
addition to the twelve, one-credit courses.
Students select a project adviser, propose a tentative topic and title, and submit a 
proposal to the senior project director. The ﬁnal product of the senior requirement may 
be a written essay or an alternative project such as a ﬁlm, exhibition, catalog, atlas, or 
historical data reconstruction. In the case of an alternative project, the student must 
identify a second reader in addition to the adviser before the senior project director 
approves the project. The adviser or the second reader must be a faculty member in 
History of Science, Medicine, and Public Health. A written component of the senior 
project must illustrate sources and the intellectual signiﬁcance of the project. For more 
details about requirements and deadlines, majors should consult the HSHM Senior 
Project Handbook; copies are available from the senior project director and on the 
program website .
SUMMARY OF MAJOR REQUIREMENTS
Prerequisites/uni2002None
Number of courses/uni200212 courses for 12 credits (incl senior req)
Distribution of courses/uni20027 courses in concentration (incl 2 HSHM courses, 1 sem 
in HSHM or HIST taken before senior year, 1 full-credit science course, and 3 
related electives); 3 addtl HSHM electives, to incl 1 sem and 1 course outside major 
concentration
Senior requirement/uni2002T wo-term project HSHM 4900 and 4910
Concentrations
The seven standard concentrations in the major are: Colonialism, Knowledge, and 
Power; Environment and Society; Gender, Reproduction, and the Body; Media, 
Information, and the Public; Medicine and Public Health; Minds and Brains; Science, 
Technology, and Society. Students may also design customized concentrations in 
consultation with the director of undergraduate studies (DUS). No later than the 336            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
beginning of the junior year, students in the major must select a standard concentration 
or indicate that they wish to design their own.
Students may ﬁnd courses that fulﬁll the requirements of the concentrations in Yale 
Course Search  by searching the "Any Course Information Attribute" dropdown search 
feature.
Colonialism, Knowledge, and Power (YC HSHM Colonial Know & Power)
Environment and Society (YC HSHM Environ & Society)
Gender, Reproduction, and the Body (YC HSHM Gender, Reprod & Body)
Media, Information, and the Public (YC HSHM Media Info & Public)
Medicine and Public Health (YC HSHM Med & Public Health )
Minds and Brains ( YC HSHM Minds and Brains )
Science, Technology, and Society (YC HSHM Sci, Tech & Society)
FACULTY ASSOCIATED WITH THE PROGRAM OF HISTORY OF SCIENCE, 
MEDICINE, AND PUBLIC HEALTH
Professors/uni2002Deborah Coen, Naomi Rogers, John Warner
Associate Professors/uni2002Paola Bertucci, Joanna Radin, William Rankin
Assistant Professors Nana Quarshie, Marco Ramos, Carolyn Roberts
Lecturers/uni2002 Sakena Abedin, Ivano Dal Prete, Ziv Eisenberg, Chitra Ramalingam
Aﬃliated Faculty/uni2002Rene Almeling (Sociology ), Toby Appel (Yale University Library), 
Melissa Grafe (Yale University Library ), Dimitri Gutas (Near Eastern Languages & 
Civilizations), Jessica Helfand ( School of Art), Marcia Inhorn (Anthropology ), Kathryn 
James (Yale University Library ), Amy Kapczynski (Law School ), Gundula Kreuzer 
(Music), Amy Meyers (Yale Center for British Art), Alan Mikhail (History), Ayesha 
Ramachandran ( Comparative Literature), Paul Sabin (History ), Jason Schwartz (School 
of Medicine), Gordon Shepherd (School of Medicine), Frank Snowden (History), Rebecca 
Tannenbaum (History), R. John Williams (English)