Human Rights Studies Certiﬁcates         337
Human Rights Studies Certiﬁcates
Certiﬁcate directors:  Bonnie Weir  (bonnie.weir@yale.edu ) and David Simon
(david.simon@yale.edu ); https://jackson.yale.edu/academics/human-rights-
certiﬁcate/
Human Rights Studies certiﬁcateS
The Human Rights Studies Certiﬁcates present human rights as a rich and 
interdisciplinary ﬁeld of study. The certiﬁcates aim to provide students with the 
analytical, conceptual, and practical skills necessary for human rights study; connect 
students to aﬃliate faculty and peers; and oﬀer guidance for post-graduate careers and 
studies related to human rights.
Students seeking to engage with Human Rights Studies can pursue one of two 
pathways alongside their major: the Intensive Human Rights Certiﬁcate, which is 
capped and requires an application, or the uncapped Human Rights Certiﬁcate, 
which oﬀers an individualized pathway to develop expertise through related 
coursework. Students may choose either one, but not both of these pathways.
•To apply for the Intensive Human Rights Certiﬁcate, see the Human Rights
website.
•To pursue the Human Rights Certiﬁcate, go to Declare Major, Concentration within
the Major, Certiﬁcate  on Yale Hub.
No more than two course credits fulﬁlling the requirements of either of the Human 
Rights Studies certiﬁcates may overlap with a major, a simultaneous degree, or another 
certiﬁcate. Additionally, no course credit may be applied toward the requirements of 
more than two curricular programs. For example, the same course credit may not be 
used to fulﬁll the requirements of two certiﬁcates and a major.
Intensive Certiﬁcate in Human Rights
This certiﬁcate accepts students by application during the spring term of their 
sophomore year.
Requirements
See Links to the attributes indicating courses approved for the certiﬁcate requirements.
To fulﬁll the certiﬁcate requirements, students complete a gateway lecture course 
(HMRT 1000), ﬁve electives, and participate in a non-credited senior colloquium. The 
gateway course equips students with the theoretical tools necessary for studying human 
rights, their evolution, and their justiﬁcation. It introduces several contemporary issues 
such as gender disparities, racial discrimination, climate change, global health, human 
trafficking, refugees, world poverty, and humanitarian intervention.
Elective courses  The number of courses at Yale College that touch on human rights 
is large, and we encourage a diversity of perspectives and methodologies across 
departments and disciplines. The formal criterion for a program elective is that a 
course “engage with the language, ideas, and methods of human rights.” The elective 
should have a substantial focus on Human Rights issues, with four or more of the 
thirteen (or six to eight of the twenty-six) course meetings focusing on these issues 
(per the syllabus). Approved electives are divided into two categories: (1) Domestic and 338            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
(2) International, and students are expected to take at least one course in each of the 
categories. Graduate and professional school courses may count, with approval from the 
certiﬁcate director(s) or if tagged with one of the attributes listed below.
Credit/D/Fail/uni2002No courses taken Credit/D/Fail may be applied toward the 
requirements of the certiﬁcate. 
Outside credit  Courses taken at another institution or during an approved summer or 
term-time study abroad program may count toward the certiﬁcate requirements with 
the approval of the certiﬁcate director(s). An on-topic summer internship can replace 
one elective, again with the approval of the certiﬁcate director(s).
Additional information is available on the Human Rights program website.
Summary of REQUIREMENTS 
Number of courses/uni20026 course credits
Speciﬁc courses required HMRT 1000
Distribution of courses/uni2002at least  1 course credit in each of two area categories: (1) 
domestic (2) international for a total of 5 electives
Other requirements  non-credited senior colloquium
CERTIFICATE IN HUMAN RIGHTS
See Links to the attributes indicating courses approved for the certiﬁcate requirements.
This certiﬁcate, available to all interested Yale Students, provides the opportunity for 
students to pursue an interdisciplinary study of human rights.
To earn the certiﬁcate, students must take the gateway course, HMRT 1000, and 4 
electives, with at least one elective chosen from each of the two area categories: (1) 
Domestic and (2) International. Graduate and professional school courses may count, 
with approval from the certiﬁcate director(s) or if tagged with one of the attributes 
listed below.
Credit/D/Fail/uni2002No courses taken Credit/D/Fail may be applied toward the 
requirements of the certiﬁcate. 
Outside credit  Courses taken at another institution or during an approved summer or 
term-time study abroad program may count toward the certiﬁcate requirements with 
the approval of the certiﬁcate director(s). An on-topic summer internship can replace 
one elective, again with the approval of the certiﬁcate director(s).
Additional information is available on the Human Rights program website.
Declaration of Candidacy
Students must declare their intention to earn a Certiﬁcate on the Declare Major, 
Concentration within the Major, Certiﬁcate page on Yale Hub, as early as possible, but 
at the very latest, by the 15th of January or September in their last semester at 
Yale. Once declared, Degree Audit tracks students’ progress toward completion 
of the certiﬁcate.Human Rights Studies Certiﬁcates         339
SUMMARY OF Requirements 
Number of courses/uni20025 course credits
Speciﬁc course required   HMRT 1000
Distribution of courses/uni2002 4 electives with at least 1 from each of the 2 area categories