340            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
Humanities
Director of undergraduate studies: Paul Grimstad, (paul.grimstad@yale.edu) HQ, 320 
York St.
The undergraduate program in Humanities oﬀers both interdisciplinary breadth and 
intellectual de
pth, providing students the opportunity to integrate courses from across 
the humanistic disciplines into personally meaningful courses of study. Works of 
literature, music, history, philosophy, and the visual arts are brought into conversation 
with one another and with the history of ideas.
The major in Humanities asks students to begin with broad surveys of foundational 
works in at least two diﬀerent cultural traditions, including at least one course on 
classical Western European texts. All majors take two specially commissioned core 
seminars, one on the question of what “modernity” is, another spending a whole term 
interpreting a single work (or small corpus of works) in great depth. Students then 
devise an area of focus according to their interests and with the help of appropriate 
faculty members.
Courses for Nonmajors
Students in all classes can ﬁnd options in the varied course oﬀerings, from special 
seminars for ﬁrst-year students to the Franke and Shulman Seminars for seniors. Many 
courses are open to nonmajors.
Requirements of the Major 
Students are held to the requirements that were in place when they declared their 
major. However, with approval from the DUS, the following requirements, updated for 
the academic year 2025–2026, may be fulﬁlled by students who declared the major in a 
prior term.
See Links to the attributes indicating courses approved for the Humanities 
major requirements.
Fourteen term courses are required for the major, six core courses; one course in each 
of four areas of study in the humanities (which may include the Franke Seminar); three 
additional electives selected to complement the student's area of focus and approved 
by the director of undergraduate studies (DUS), and a one- or two-term senior essay. 
Majors are also required to keep an intellectual journal and are strongly encouraged to 
enroll in at least one term course in literature in a foreign language. 
Core courses/uni2002The major requires six core courses, two seminars in “Interpretations,” 
two seminars in “Modernities” and two lectures or seminars in “Traditions.” 
Interpretations and Modernities seminars are typically taught by a pair of faculty 
members from complementary disciplines. The two broad themes of the seminars 
remain consistent from year to year, but the material studied and the faculty members 
teaching change, allowing each class of students to explore the themes in diﬀerent ways. 
The T
raditions core courses focus on foundational works. No more than four of the six 
core courses may concern one world-historical tradition, broadly conceived.
Areas of study in the humanities/uni2002One course is required in each of four areas: 
literature; visual, musical, or dramatic arts; science in the humanities; and intellectual Humanities         341
history and historical analysis. Courses may be drawn from any department or program 
in Yale College, with the approval of the DUS.
Intellectual journal/uni2002Students are encouraged to log entries outlining particularly 
striking moments in their intellectual lives, whether in courses or outside of them, and 
to keep track of questions they would like to pursue in their studies, including possible 
senior essay topics. Students submit a minimum of one journal entry each semester to 
the DUS.
Credit/D/Fail /uni2002No more than two courses taken Credit/D/Fail may be applied toward 
the requirements of the major.
Outside credit  Courses taken at another institution or during an approved summer or 
term-time study abroad program may count toward the major requirements with DUS 
approval.
Senior Requirement
A one- or two-term senior essay is required (HUMS 4910).
Advising
Students are expected to declare their intent to major in Humanities in a meeting with 
the DUS before their junior year.
Unique to the Major
The Franke Seminar/uni2002 Sponsored by the Whitney Humanities Center and designed 
to speak across disciplinary lines to broad public and intellectual issues, the Franke 
Seminar includes a series of coordinated public lectures. The seminars are for enrolled 
students; the lecture series is open to the Yale and local communities. Humanities 
majors may enroll in a Franke Seminar with permission of the DUS and the instructor.
SUMMARY OF MAJOR REQUIREMENTS
Prerequisites /uni2002None
Number of courses/uni200214 term courses (incl senior essay)
Distribution of courses/uni20026 core courses, as speciﬁed; 1 course in each of 4 areas of 
student as speciﬁed; 3 electives in area of focus
Senior requirement/uni2002Senior essay (HUMS 4910)
Intellectual journal  A minimum of one journal entry every term
FACULTY ASSOCIATED WITH THE PROGRAM OF HUMANITIES
Professors/uni2002Je ﬀrey Alexander ( Sociology), R. Howard Bloch (French), Edyta Bojanowska 
(Slavic Languages and Literatures ), Leslie Brisman (English),  David Bromwich (English ), 
Ardis Butterﬁeld ( English), Rüdiger Campe (German), Francesco Casetti (Humanities), 
Deborah Coen ( History of Science, Medicine, and Public Health, History ), Stephen Davis 
(Religious Studies, History ), Carolyn Dean (History, French), Carlos Eire (History, 
Religious Studies ), Paul Freedman (History), Kirk Freudenburg (Classics), Bryan Garsten 
(Political Science), Marie-Hélène Girard (French), Emily Greenwood (Classics), Frank 
Griﬀel (Religious Studies), Martin Hägglund (Comparative Literature, Humanities ), 
Christine Hayes (Religious Studies, Judaic Studies), Alice Kaplan (French), Jonathan 
Kramnick (English ), Anthony Kronman (School of Law), Tina Lu (East Asian Languages 342            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
and Literatures), Ivan Marcus (History, Religious Studies), Stefanie Markovits (English), 
Giuseppe Mazzotta (Italian), Samuel Moyn (History, School of Law), Robert Nelson 
(History of Art), Paul North (German), John Durham Peters (English, Film & Media 
Studies), Brigitte Peucker (German), Pierre Saint-Amand (French), Maurice Samuels 
(French), Steven Smith (Political Science, Philosophy), Nicola Suthor (History of Art), 
Gary Tomlinson (Music, Humanities), Shawkat Toorawa (Near Eastern Languages and 
Civilizations ), Katie Trumpener (Comparative Literature), Jing Tsu (East Asian Languages 
and Literatures), Miroslav Volf (Divinity School ), Kirk Wetters (German), Christian 
Wiman (Institute of Sacred Music), Ruth Yeazell (English)
Associate Professors/uni2002Marisa Bass (History of Art), Paola Bertucci (History, History of 
Science, Medicine, and Public Health), Molly Brunson (Slavic Languages and Literatures), 
Robyn Creswell (Comparative Literature), Toni Dorfman (Adjunct) (Theater Studies), 
Emily Erikson (Sociology), Marta Figlerowicz (Comparative Literature, English), Moira 
Fradinger (Comparative Literature), Milette Gaifman (History of Art, Classics), Mick 
Hunter (East Asian Languages and Literatures), Jacqueline Jung (History of Art), Brian 
Kane (Music), Noreen Khawaja (Religious Studies), Pauline LeVen (Classics), Isaac 
Nakhimovsky (History), Joseph North (English), Joanna Radin (History of Science,
Medicine, and Public Health, History), Ayesha Ramachandran (Comparative Literature), 
Marci Shore (History)
Assistant Professors/uni2002Lucas Bender (East Asian Languages and Literatures, 
Humanities), Marijeta Bozovic (Slavic Languages and Literatures), Thomas C. Connolly 
(French), Jessica Lamont (Classics), Giulia Oskian ( Political Science), Jessica Peritz 
(Music), Christiana Purdy Moudarres (Italian), Maryam Sanjabi (French), Katrin 
Truestedt (German)
Senior Lecturers/uni2002Peter Cole (Judaic Studies), William Klein (Humanities), Pauline Lin 
(East Asian Languages and Literatures), Stuart Semmel (History, Humanities), Kathryn 
Slanski (Humanities, Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations), Norma Thompson 
(Humanities)
Lecturers/uni2002Benjamin Barasch (Humanities), Brianne Bilsky ( Humanities), Dane Collins, 
Matthew Croasmun (Divinity School ), Joseph Gordon (English), Paul Grimstad 
(Humanities), Alfred Guy (English), Katja Lindskog (English), Ryan McAnnally-Linz
(Divinity School ), Terence Renaud (Humanities), Karin Roﬀman (Humanities, English), 
Daniel Schillinger (Humanities), George Syrimis (Hellenic Studies), Adam Van Doren 
(School of Art )
Senior Lector/uni2002Constantine Muravnik (Slavic Languages and Literatures)
Lector/uni2002Simona Lorenzini (Italian)