Islamic Studies Certiﬁcate         343
Islamic Studies Certiﬁcate
Certiﬁcate director: Shawkat M. Toorawa (shawkat.toorawa@yale.edu )
This Certiﬁcate encompasses the study of Muslim and Islamic artistic, cultural, 
historical, intellectual, linguistic, literary, philosophical, political, religious, sociological 
and scientiﬁc presence, and impact on human society over the past one and a half 
millennia. It helps Yale College students curate their courses relating to Muslims and to 
Islam. It will be of interest to non-humanities majors with a strong interest in Islamic 
Studies; social science and humanities majors wishing to complement their existing 
interests with coursework in Islamic Studies; and self-identifying Muslim students for 
whom such a certiﬁcate oﬀers an ideal way academically to explore their heritage.
Requirements
See Links to the attributes indicating courses approved for the certiﬁcate requirements.
Students must successfully complete ﬁve course credits, of which no more than two 
may represent the same area of study. Currently, the four areas of study are Islamic 
Art, Architecture, Literature; Islamic History; Islamic Religion; and Islamic Society. 
Students must take one course in each of the four areas of study and the ﬁfth course 
may be selected from any of the four content areas. Courses are drawn from a list of 
approved courses. The list is posted each semester on the Islamic Studies Certiﬁcate 
w
ebsite. Other courses may be approved by permission of the certiﬁcate director. In 
addition to the course requirements, each student must attend three lectures on topics 
relating to Islamic Studies and submit a brief write-up. Notice of these events can be 
found on the Islamic Studies Certiﬁcate website.
Graduate and professional school courses may count toward the certiﬁcate; language 
courses and non-Yale courses may not count toward the Certiﬁcate.
No more than two course credits fulﬁlling the requirements of the Islamic Studies 
certiﬁcate may overlap with a major, a simultaneous degree, or another certiﬁcate. 
Additionally, no course credit may be applied toward the requirements of more than 
two curricular programs. For example, the same course credit may not be used to fulﬁll 
the requirements of two certiﬁcates and a major. All courses must be taken for a letter 
grade, and students must achieve a grade of C or above.
Credit/D/Fail/uni2002No courses taken Credit/D/Fail may be applied toward the 
requirements of the certiﬁcate.
Outside credit Courses taken at another institution or during an approved summer or 
te
rm-time study abroad program may count toward the major requirements with prior 
DUS approval. 
Declaration of Candidacy
Students must declare their intention to earn a Certiﬁcate on the Declare Major, 
Concentration within the Major, Certiﬁcate page on Yale Hub, as early as possible, but 
at the very latest, by the 15th of January or September in their last semester at 
Yale. Once declared, Degree Audit tracks students
’ progress toward completion 
of the certiﬁcate.344            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
Summary of Requirements 
Number of courses/uni20025 course credits
Distribution of courses/uni2002 1 course in each of the four content areas; 1 elective from any of 
the four content areas
Additional requirements/uni2002attendance of 3 Islamic Studies lectures, and submission of a 
1–2 page write-up for each