Italian Studies         345
Italian Studies
Director of undergraduate studies: Simona Lorenzini (simona.lorenzini@yale.edu), 
320 York St., 432-0508; language program director: Anna Iacovella
(anna.iacovella@yale.edu), 320 York St., 432-8299; italian.yale.edu
The major in Italian Studies explores Italy’s vital role in the formation of Western 
thought and culture. The core language courses provide students with the opportunity 
to acquire an in-depth linguistic proﬁciency, together with a solid literary and historical 
background in the language. In its interdisciplinary focus, the major oﬀers a variety 
of advanced courses in literature, cinema, history, translation practice, art, and gender 
studies. Central to the major is the conviction that delving into another language and 
culture, in addition to the intellectual enrichment it aﬀords, raises students’ awareness 
of what is distinctive about their own cultural identity.
Italian makes an excellent second major as a complement to several extradepartmental 
disciplines, among them History of Art, Comparative Literature, Economics , Film and 
Media Studies, History, Political Science, and Architecture.
Studying and appreciating a foreign language, literature, and culture oﬀers students 
a useful and challenging option in their university education. In particular, the Italian 
Studies major prepares students for careers in international business, translation, 
journalism, economics, art, media, ﬁlm, fashion, design, education, and tourism.
Prerequisite 
Candidates for the major should have completed a course in Italian at the level of
ITAL 1300 (L3) or should have received credit for equivalent work by the end of their 
sophomore year. Exceptions may be made in the case of outstanding students who have 
not satisﬁed this requirement.
Placement Procedures
All students who have not taken Italian at Yale are expected to take the departmental 
placement test, except for students who have no previous knowledge of Italian. The 
placement examination is completed online during the summer; see the Calendar for the 
Opening Days of College  and the department website for details.
Requirements of the Major 
See Links to the attributes indicating courses approved for the major requirements.
The major consists of eleven term courses beyond the prerequisite. Eight term courses 
in the Italian Studies department numbered 1400 or above (including graduate 
courses) are required, at least ﬁve of which must be conducted in Italian. The courses 
in the department must include ITAL 1400 or equivalent, either ITAL 1500 or 1510, a 
survey course on Italian literature (ITAL 4162 or 4172), and a course on Dante's Divine 
Comedy (ITAL 1310 or equivalent). The aim of these foundational courses is to provide 
students with both a broad acquaintance with the major works of Italian Studies 
and a more detailed knowledge of speciﬁc periods in Italian literature and media. No 
more than three Italian department courses taught in English may count toward the 
major. Students intending to major in Italian Studies should consult the director of 
undergraduate studies (DUS).346            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
In completing their programs, students are required to elect two courses in other 
languages and literatures, history of art, history, linguistics, philosophy, or media that 
are related to their ﬁeld of study and approved by the DUS. Any graduate course in 
another national literature or in linguistics may be substituted for one of these two 
courses.
Credit/D/Fail/uni2002 No more than one course taken Credit/D/Fail may be counted toward 
the major requirements (excluding the senior essay requirement).
Outside credit  Courses taken at another institution or during an approved summer or 
term-time study abroad program may count toward the major requirements with DUS 
approval.
Senior Requirement 
During their senior year, all students majoring in Italian Studies are required to meet 
with the DUS at least twice per month. In the fall or spring of the senior year, all 
majors must present a departmental essay written in Italian and completed under 
the direction of a faculty adviser in ITAL 4491. The essay should demonstrate careful 
reading and research on a topic approved by the adviser in consultation with the DUS. 
A recommended length for the essay is thirty pages, plus bibliography. The student 
and the advisor will select and invite a second faculty reader, who will receive the ﬁnal 
version of the thesis by the established deadline. While prospectus and draft deadlines 
are determined by the adviser, the student must submit the ﬁnal version no later than 
10 days before the last day of classes, in the Fall or Spring. The senior requirement 
culminates in a meeting with department faculty to discuss the thesis and the student ’s 
overall experience of study in the major.
Advising
The department’s course offerings vary greatly from year to year. Students interested in 
planning coursework in Italian that extends beyond the current academic year should 
consult the DUS.
Related majors/uni2002In addition to the major in Italian Studies, the department supports 
the applications of qualiﬁed students who wish to pursue a course in Italian studies 
under the provisions of a Special Divisional Major. Majors can devise a broad program 
in social, political, economic, or intellectual history as related to and reﬂected in Italian 
literature, or pursue special interests in architecture, ﬁlm, art, philosophy, music, 
history, linguistics, theater, political theory, or other ﬁelds especially well-suited for 
examination from the perspective of Italian cultural history. Majors in Italian Studies 
must design their programs in close consultation with the DUS and seek the guidance 
of an additional member of the department whose interests closely coincide with the 
proposed program of study. For further information, see Special Divisional Majors.
Combined B.A./M.A. degree program/uni2002Exceptionally able and well-prepared students 
may complete a course of study leading to the simultaneous award of the B.A. and 
M.A. degrees after eight terms of enrollment. See Academic Regulations, section L, 
Special Academic Arrangements, “Simultaneous Award of the Bachelor’s and Master’s 
Degrees.” Interested students should consult the DUS prior to the sixth term of 
enrollment for speciﬁc requirements in Italian.Italian Studies          347
Study Abroad
For information about the Year or Term Abroad program, see Academic Regulations,  
section K, Special Academic Programs, “Year or Term Abroad.”
SUMMARY OF MAJOR REQUIREMENTS
Prerequisite/uni2002ITAL 1300 or equivalent
Number of courses/uni200211 term courses beyond prereq (incl senior req)
Speciﬁc courses required /uni2002ITAL 1400 or equivalent; ITAL 1500 or 1510; ITAL 4162 or 
4172; ITAL 1310 or equivalent
Distribution of courses/uni20028 term courses in Italian Studies dept numbered 1400 or 
above, at least 5 of these conducted in Italian; 2 elective courses in other langs and lits, 
hist of art, hist, ling, phil, or media approved by DUS
Substitution permitted/uni2002One grad course in another national literature or in linguistics, 
with DUS permission
Senior requirement/uni2002Senior essay in Italian (ITAL 4491) and a meeting with 
departmental faculty members at the end of the ﬁnal semester
Certiﬁcate of Advanced Language Study
The Italian Department oﬀers a Certiﬁcate of Advanced Language Study in Italian. A 
certiﬁcate adviser, typically the director of undergraduate studies (DUS), advises 
students on the certiﬁcation process. The student's oﬃcial transcript lists the Certiﬁcate 
of Advanced Language Study.
Requirements
Students seeking to earn the certiﬁcate are required to take four courses beyond the L4 
level in Italian, at least three of which must be Yale courses designated as L5. All courses 
must be taken for a letter grade, and students must achieve a grade of B or above. With 
the approval of the certiﬁcate adviser, one advanced non-L5 course, conducted in 
Italian, such as an independent study course (graded pass/fail), a graduate seminar, or 
an advanced seminar may count toward certiﬁcation requirements.
The certiﬁcate adviser may allow one “language across the curriculum” (LxC) course 
taught in English to count toward the certiﬁcation requirements provided the course 
includes at minimum a weekly discussion section conducted entirely in Italian. The 
discussion section must enroll a minimum of three students and the course must be 
designated as LxC in the course description.
The adviser may also approve the substitution of up to two credits earned during study 
abroad and taught in Italian to count toward the certiﬁcate requirements. If the adviser 
approves courses taken outside of Yale for inclusion in the certiﬁcate requirements, 
students must take the necessary steps to ensure that those courses appear on their 
transcripts.
Credit/D/Fail/uni2002No courses taken Credit/D/Fail may be counted toward the 
requirements of the certiﬁcate.348            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
Declaration of Candidacy
Students must declare their intention to earn a Certiﬁcate on the Declare Major, 
Concentration within the Major, Certiﬁcate page on Yale Hub, as early as possible, but at 
the very latest, by the 15th of January or September in their last semester at 
Yale. Once declared, Degree Audit tracks students' progress toward completion 
of the certiﬁcate.
FACULTY OF THE DEPARTMENT OF ITALIAN
Professors
/uni2002Millicent Marcus, Jane Tylus (Chair), Heather Webb
Assistant Professors/uni2002Serena Bassi, Alessandro Giammei
Senior Lecturer Pierpaolo Antonello
Senior Lector II/uni2002Anna Iacovella
Senior Lectors/uni2002Michael Farina, Simona Lorenzini, Deborah Pellegrino
Professor in the Practice Amara Lakhous
Affiliated Faculty/uni2002
Paola Bertucci (History of Science, Medicine, and Public Health), 
Howard Bloch (French), Jessica Brantley (English), Francesco Casetti (Film and Media 
Studies
), Joanna Fiduccia (History of Art), Jacqueline Jung (History of Art), Laurence 
Kanter (Yale University Art Gallery), Gundula Kreuzer (Music), Morgan Ng (History of 
Art), Jessica Peritz (Music),  David Quint (English and Comparative Literature), Ayesha 
Ramachandran (Comparative Literature), Kevin Repp (Beinecke Library Curator, Modern 
European Books and Manuscripts), Lucia Rubinelli (Political Science), Pierre Saint-Amand 
(
French), Gary Tomlinson (Music)