Jewish Studies         349
Jewish Studies
Director of undergraduate studies: Hannan Hever (hannan.hever@yale.edu); HQ 341; 
hannan.hever@yale.edu
Jewish Studies enables students to develop a broad knowledge of the history, 
religion, literature, philosophy, languages, and politics of the Jews. Jewish society, 
texts, ideologies, material cultures, and institutions are studied from a comparative 
perspective in the context of histories, cultures, and intellectual traditions among which 
Jews have lived throughout the ages. As an interdisciplinary program, Jewish Studies 
employs historical, literary, political, social, and philosophical methods of analysis.
The Jewish Studies major—especially as a second major with Economics, Political 
Science, Comparative Literature, English, Philosophy, or History—oﬀers a broad liberal 
arts background combined with intensive preparation in the historical and religious 
experience of Jewish culture from antiquity to contemporary times. The major epochs 
of Jewish history are the Persian and Hellenistic, classical, medieval, early modern, and 
modern periods.
Students considering a major in Jewish Studies should contact the director of 
undergraduate studies (DUS) as early as possible.
Requirements of the Major
The major in Jewish Studies requires thirteen term courses, including three courses 
selected from a set of core requirements, a language or literature requirement, three 
courses selected from each of two areas of focus, and the senior requirement.
Core requirements  Each student must elect at least three from the following: (1) a 
course in Hebrew Bible, such as JDST 1000; (2) a course in rabbinic literature or 
ancient Judaism, such as JDST 3035; (3) JDST 2000; (4) JDST 2001; (5) a course in 
Jewish thought, such as JDST 3681 or JDST 3693; (6) a survey course in Hebrew and 
Jewish literature.
Language or literature requirements  Students must complete either HEBR 1100 and 
1200 or two courses in Hebrew literature in translation. Up to three Hebrew language 
courses may be counted toward the requirements of the major.
Areas of focus  Students must select two of the following focus areas: ancient Israel/
Hebrew Bible; Judaism and Jewish history of Second Temple and Talmudic times; 
Jewish history and civilization of medieval and Renaissance times; modern Jewish 
history and civilization; Jewish/Hebrew literature (which requires the study of 
literature in Hebrew); and Jewish thought. With the approval of the DUS, students 
may design their own areas of focus.
In each of the two areas of focus, students choose three courses in consultation with 
the DUS. These are expected to comprise one introductory course; one seminar taken 
in the junior year, and one course requiring a ﬁnal research paper. One relevant course 
should be in an area outside Jewish Studies, such as a course relating to the larger 
historical, literary, or philosophical context if the focus area is in a historical period, 
or a course in the theory or practice of literature if the focus area is in Jewish/Hebrew 
literature.350            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
Credit/D/Fail/uni2002 No more than one course taken Credit/D/Fail may be applied toward 
the major requirements.
Outside credit Courses taken at another institution or during an approved summer or 
te
rm-time study abroad program may count toward the major requirements with DUS 
approval.
Senior requirement
Students are required either to complete a two-term senior essay in JDST 4491 and 
JDST 4492 related to both areas of focus or to complete a one-term senior essay in 
JDST 4491 or JDST 4492 related to one area of focus and an additional seminar related 
to the other. The senior essay may build on research conducted for one or both of the 
student's junior seminar papers.
Study abroad
Students majoring in Jewish Studies should be aware of the numerous opportunities 
for study abroad. Those interested in research and language-study opportunities in the 
Middle East, Europe, and South America should consult the DUS.
SUMMARY OF MAJOR REQUIREMENTS
Prerequisites None
Number of courses
 13 term courses (incl senior req)
Distribution of courses 3 core courses as indicated; HEBR 1100 and 1200, or 2 courses 
in Hebrew lit in translation; 2 areas of focus, with 3 courses in each for a total of 6 focus 
area courses
Senior requirement
 Two-term senior essay (JDST 4491, JDST 4492) or one-term 
senior essay (JDST 4491 or JDST 4492) and additional seminar
FACUL
TY ASSOCIATED WITH THE PROGRAM OF JUDAIC STUDIES
Professors/uni2002Joel Baden (Divinity School), Leslie Brisman (English), Paul Franks 
(Philosophy), Hannan Hever (Comparative Literature), Sarit Kattan (Religious Studies), 
Nancy Levene (Religious Studies), Ivan Marcus (History, Religious Studies), Samuel 
Moyn (Law), Edieal Pinker (School of Management), Maurice Samuels (French), Steven 
Smith (Political Science, Philosophy), David Sorkin (History), Elli Stern (Chair)(Religious 
Studies
), Katie Trumpener (Comparative Literature, English), Jacqueline Vayntrub 
(Religious Studies), Laura Wexler (Women’s, Gender, & Sexuality Studies, American 
Studies), Molly Zahn (Religious Studies)
Associate Professor   Marci Shore ( History)
Senior Lecturer/uni2002Peter Cole (Comparative Literature)
Lecturer Margaret Olin (Emeritus/Divinity School, History of Art, Religious Studies)
Se
nior Lector II/uni2002 Shiri Goren
Senior Lectors  Dina Roginsky, Orit Yeret
Lector Joshua Price