Latin American Studies         351
Latin American Studies
Director of undergraduate studies: Ana De La O  (ana.delao@yale.edu ), Room 327, 115 
Prospect St.; (203) 432-5234; https://macmillan.yale.edu/academic-programs
The major in Latin American Studies is designed to further understanding of the 
societies and cultures of Latin America as viewed from regional and global perspectives. 
The Latin American Studies major builds on a foundation of language and literature, 
history, history of art, theater studies, humanities, and the social sciences; its faculty is 
drawn from many departments and professional schools of the University.
The major in Latin American Studies is interdisciplinary. With two goals in mind—
intellectual coherence and individual growth—the student proposes a course of study 
that must satisfy the requirements listed below. The proposed course of study must be 
approved by the director of undergraduate studies (DUS). Though all students choose 
courses in both the humanities and the social sciences, they are expected to concentrate 
on one or the other.
Students are held to the prerequisite and major requirements that were in place 
when they declared their major . However, with approval from the director of 
undergraduate studies (DUS), the following requirements, updated in the academic 
year 2024–2025, may be fulﬁlled by students who declared the major in a prior term.
Prerequisites
Prerequisite to declaring the major is knowledge of either Spanish or Portuguese at the 
L3 level. Equivalent placement determined by the placement examination also fulﬁlls 
the prerequisite.
Requirements of the Major
The major itself requires twelve term courses: one introductory course approved by 
the DUS; seven courses related to Latin America from departmental oﬀerings; three 
additional electives; and the senior essay LAST 4491 or senior project LAST 4492. One 
of the twelve courses must be taught in Spanish or Portuguese at the L5 level.
The seven Latin American content courses should include courses from the following 
categories: two courses in the social sciences (anthropology, economics, or political 
science); two courses in history; two courses in Spanish American or Brazilian 
literatures beyond the language requirement; one course in art, architecture, ﬁlm and 
media studies, music, or theater studies. Students wishing to count toward the major 
courses that do not appear in the program's course oﬀ erings, but have at least a third of 
syllabus' material related to the region, should consult with the DUS.
Students must enroll in three seminars or upper-level courses during their junior and 
senior years. Elective seminars must be approved by the DUS.
Credit/D/Fail/uni2002No more than one course taken Credit/D/Fail may be applied toward 
the major requirements.
Outside credit  Courses taken at another institution or during an approved summer or 
term-time study abroad program may count toward the major requirements with DUS 
approval.352            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
Senior Requirement
The senior requirement is a research paper written usually in one term in LAST 4491 or 
a senior project in LAST 4492.
For the senior essay, students choose their own topics, which may derive from research 
done in an earlier course. The essay is planned in advance in consultation with a 
qualiﬁed adviser and a second reader. In preparing the senior essay, Latin American 
Studies majors may undertake ﬁeld research in Latin America. Students are encouraged 
to apply for summer travel grants through the Council on Latin American and Iberian 
Studies to conduct ﬁeld research for their senior thesis. The Albert Bildner Travel 
Prize is awarded to an outstanding junior who submits an application in Spanish or 
Portuguese in addition to the English application essay. Information about these and 
other grants is available on Yale's Student Grants & Fellowships website.
For the senior project, students formulate and execute a project under the supervision 
of a faculty adviser in the fall or spring term. Students work on projects of their own 
choice. Proposals for senior projects are submitted to the adviser and the director of 
undergraduate studies by the end of the term preceding the last resident term. An 
interim project review takes place by the ﬁfth week of the term the project is developed. 
Permission to complete the senior project can be withdrawn if satisfactory progress has 
not been made. An exhibition of selected work done in the project is expected of each 
student.
Advising
A list of courses intended as a guide to students in preparing their programs is available 
at the oﬃce of the DUS and on the Council on Latin American and Iberian Studies 
website. Qualiﬁed students may also elect pertinent courses in the Graduate School and 
in some of the professional schools with permission of the director of graduate studies 
or professional school registrar and the DUS.
Study Abroad
Students are strongly encouraged to take advantage of study abroad opportunities 
during summers or through the Year or Term Abroad program. For more information, 
see Academic Regulations, section K, Special Academic Programs, “Year or Term 
Abroad.”
SUMMARY OF MAJOR REQUIREMENTS
Prerequisites/uni2002Spanish or Portuguese at L3 level or higher; or equivalent score on 
placement exam
Number of courses/uni200212 courses beyond prereqs (incl senior requirement)
Distribution of courses/uni2002 1 intro course; 7 courses with Latin American content in 
speciﬁed ﬁelds as indicated; 3 addtl electives; 3 of the courses must be seminars or 
upper-level courses taken in junior and senior years; 1 of the courses must be taught in 
Spanish or Portuguese at L5 level; all approved by DUS
Senior requirement/uni2002Senior essay (LAST 4491) or senior project (LAST 4492)
FACULTY ASSOCIATED WITH THE PROGRAM OF LATIN AMERICAN STUDIES
Professors/uni2002Rolena Adorno (Spanish & Portuguese), Ned Blackhawk (History, American 
Studies), Richard Burger (Anthropology), Hazel Carby (African American Studies, Latin American Studies         353
American Studies), Carlos Eire (History, Religious Studies), Eduardo Fernandez-Duque 
(Anthropology), Paul Freedman (History), Aníbal González (Spanish & Portuguese), 
Roberto González Echevarría (Spanish & Portuguese), K. David Jackson (Spanish 
& Portuguese), Gilbert Joseph (History), Stathis Kalyvas (Political Science), Daniel 
Markovits (Law School), Mary Miller (History of Art), Stephen Pitti (History), Susan 
Rose-Ackerman (Law School, Political Science), Alicia Schmidt Camacho ( American 
Studies), Stuart Schwartz (History), Susan Stokes (Political Science), Robert Thompson 
(History of Art), Noël Valis (Spanish & Portuguese), Frederick Wherry (Sociology), 
Elisabeth Wood (Political Science)
Associate Professors/uni2002Robert Bailis (Forestry & Environmental Studies), Susan Byrne 
(Spanish & Portuguese), Rodrigo Canales (School of Management), Ana De La O (Political 
Science), Moira Fradinger (Comparative Literature)
Assistant Professors/uni2002Vanessa Agard-Jones (Women's, Gender, & Sexuality Studies), Ryan 
Bennett (Linguistics ), Oswaldo Chinchilla (Anthropology), Marcela Echeverri (History), 
Anne Eller (History), Leslie Harkema (Spanish & Portuguese), Seth Jacobowitz (East 
Asian Languages & Literatures), Erica James (History of Art, African American Studies), 
Albert Laguna (American Studies, Ethnicity, Race, & Migration), Dixa Ramirez (American 
Studies, Ethnicity, Race, & Migration)
Senior Lectors II/uni2002Margherita Tortora, Sonia Valle
Senior Lectors/uni2002Sybil Alexandrov, Marta Almeida, María Pilar Asensio-Manrique, 
Mercedes Carreras, Ame Cividanes, Sebastián Díaz, María de la Paz García, María 
Jordán, Rosamaría León, Juliana Ramos-Ruano, Lissette Reymundi, Lourdes Sabé-
Colom, Bárbara Saﬁlle, Terry Seymour
Lector/uni2002Selma Vital