354            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
Linguistics
Director of undergraduate studies: Jason Shaw (jason.shaw@yale.edu); ling.yale.edu
Linguistics is the systematic study of human language. Linguistics studies how 
language works: how it is produced and processed in the mind, how it develops in 
children, how it is used in society, and how it changes over time. Linguistics also looks 
at the structures of the thousands of spoken and signed languages used throughout 
the world. The undergraduate major in Linguistics introduces students to many of the 
key areas of linguistics and oﬀers a program of study leading toward an understanding 
of phonological, grammatical, and semantic structure and various approaches to 
descriptive, experimental, computational, and historical linguistics. Majors take a 
ﬂexible combination of courses across subﬁelds of linguistics and go into depth in 
one or more areas. Students learn about the many ways that language interfaces 
with questions in the social sciences, humanities, and sciences, and they often take 
complementary coursework in other departments or programs. All students write a 
senior essay and many make use of their linguistics work in future careers. Interested 
students should consult the director of undergraduate studies (DUS).
Courses for Nonmajors and Majors
Students with no previous background in linguistics are encouraged to approach the 
ﬁeld by taking a 1000-level course. All 1000-level courses are accessible to students with 
no prior background.
Requirements of the Major
See Links to the attributes indicating courses approved for the Linguistics 
major requirements.
The major requires twelve term courses in linguistics and related areas, distributed as 
follows:
1.Breadth requirement (four courses). All majors must take one course in the areas of 
phonology (LING 2320 ) and syntax ( LING 2530 ). In addition, at least one course 
must be taken in any two of the six remaining foundational areas of linguistics: 
phonetics, morphology, semantics/pragmatics, computational linguistics, language 
and mind/brain, and historical linguistics.
2.Depth requirement (two courses). In one of the eight areas of linguistics, students 
must take two additional courses beyond the introductory level.
3.Electives (four courses). Four additional courses relating to linguistics are required, 
at least one of which must be at the 2000 level or above. Electives may be chosen 
from courses oﬀered by the Linguistics department or, with approval of the DUS, 
from related courses in programs such as Anthropology, Classics, Cognitive 
Science, Computer Science, English, Philosophy, Psychology, or foreign languages. 
No more than two foreign language courses can count toward the major without 
speciﬁc DUS approval. 
4.Senior research requirement (one course). LING 4900 , Research Methods in 
Linguistics, is required and is typically taken in the fall term for those students 
graduating in the spring. Students graduating in the fall may take it in the fall term 
of their junior year. This course prepares students for the senior essay.Linguistics         355
Credit/D/Fail/uni2002 No courses taken Credit/D/Fail, Pass/Fail, or any scale other than 
the standard letter-grade scale, may be applied toward the requirements of the 
major without speciﬁc DUS approval.
Outside credit  Courses taken at another institution or during an approved summer or 
term-time study abroad program may count toward the major requirements with DUS 
approval.
Senior Requirement
Senior requirement (one course). Students attend a research colloquium and write a 
senior essay in LING 4910 during the ﬁnal spring term of the senior year.
Advising
Combined B.A./M.A. degree program/uni2002Exceptionally able and well-prepared students 
may complete a course of study leading to the simultaneous award of the B.A. and 
M.A. degrees after eight terms of enrollment. See Academic Regulations, section L, 
Special Academic Arrangements , “Simultaneous Award of the Bachelor's and Master's 
Degrees.” Interested students should consult the DUS prior to the sixth term of 
enrollment for speciﬁc requirements in Linguistics.
SUMMARY OF MAJOR REQUIREMENTS
Prerequisites/uni2002 None
Number of courses/uni200212 term courses (incl senior req)
Speciﬁc courses required/uni2002LING 2320 (phonology), LING 2530 (syntax), LING 4900
Distribution of courses/uni20021 course each in 2 foundational areas other than phonology and 
syntax (breadth req), as speciﬁed; 2 addtl courses beyond intro level in 1 foundational 
area (depth req); 4 electives, at least 1 at the 2000 level or above
Substitution permitted /uni2002Electives from related programs with DUS approval
Senior requirement/uni2002 LING 4910
FACULTY OF THE DEPARTMENT OF LINGUISTICS
Professors/uni2002Claire Bowern, Veneeta Dayal, Robert Frank, Laurence Horn (Emeritus), 
†Frank Keil, †Joshua Knobe, Maria Piñango, Fernando Rubio (Adjunct), †Jason 
Stanley, †Zoltán Szabó, Raﬀaella Zanuttini (Chair)
Associate Professors/uni2002Athulya Aravind, Simon Charlow, Jason Shaw, Jim Wood
Assistant Professors/uni2002Tom McCoy, Augustina Owusu (Visiting), Natalie Weber
Lector  Julia Silvestri
Lecturer  Lydia Newkirk
†A joint appointment with primary a ﬃliation in another department.