Medieval Studies Certiﬁcate         369
Medieval Studies Certiﬁcate
Certiﬁcate director: Emily Thornbury (emily.thornbury@yale.edu); 432-0672;
Medieval Studies
This certiﬁcate is available to all interested Yale College students, and provides them 
an opportunity to pursue a focused curriculum, in addition to their major, that 
will strengthen their liberal arts education. Medieval Studies is the interdisciplinary 
study of the histories, languages, and cultures of the medieval period worldwide. This 
certiﬁcate provides a curated set of courses across a range of departments—including, 
but not limited to, East Asian Studies, English, History, History of Art, Near Eastern 
Languages and Civilizations, and Religious Studies—to expand and deepen those 
interests.
The certiﬁcate requirements are ﬂexible enough to oﬀer structure and guidance to 
those students with a general interest in Medieval Studies, as well as accommodate 
interdisciplinary breadth for students whose research is already focused on the medieval 
period.
Requirements
See Links to the attributes indicating courses approved for the certiﬁcate requirements.
Students must successfully complete ﬁve course credits on medieval topics, drawn from 
the list of approved courses posted each semester on the Medieval Studies website. 
Other course credits may be approved by permission of the certiﬁcate director and the 
course instructor.
Of the ﬁve credits: no more than three may originate in the same zone. As currently 
conﬁgured, the four zones are East and Southeast Asia, South and Central Asia, the
Near East and North Africa, and Europe, Russia, and the North Atlantic. Students 
may search for courses that count toward the certiﬁcate in YCS by using the attributes 
indicated below.
Additionally, no more than two course credits may overlap in the fulﬁllment of 
the requirements of the Medieval Studies Certiﬁcate or of a major, a simultaneous 
degree, or another certiﬁcate. Additionally, no course credit may be applied toward 
the requirements of more than two curricular programs. For example, the same course 
credit may not be used to fulﬁll the requirements of two certiﬁcates and a major.
In addition to the course requirements, each student must attend three lectures on 
medieval topics. After each lecture, students should submit a 1–2 page account of the 
lecture to the certiﬁcate director or one of the certiﬁcate advisors to be credited for 
attendance. There are typically six Yale lectures in Medieval Studies every academic 
year, as well as weekly Medieval Lunch talks. Events in other departments, or outside 
Yale, may also count toward the lecture requirement. Notice of relevant events can be 
found on the Medieval Studies website.
Credit/D/Fail  Only one course taken Credit/D/Fail may be applied toward the 
requirements of the certiﬁcate.370            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
Outside credit Courses taken at another institution or during an approved summer or 
term-time study abroad program may count toward the major requirements with DUS 
approval.
Declaration of Candidacy
Students interested in learning more about the certiﬁcate should complete the form 
found on the Medieval Studies website or contact the certiﬁcate director. Students must 
declare their intention to earn a Certiﬁcate on the Declare Major, Concentration within 
the Major, Certiﬁcate  page on Yale Hub, as early as possible, but at the very latest, by the 
15th of January or September in their last semester at Yale. Once declared, Degree 
Audit tracks students
’ progress toward completion of the certiﬁcate.
summary of Requirements 
Number of courses/uni20025 course credits dispersed between the four geographic zones
Distribution of courses/uni2002up to 3 courses in any one of the four zones
Additional requirements /uni2002attendance at 3 Medieval Studies lectures, each followed by a 
1–2 page account of the event