Modern Middle East Studies         371
Modern Middle East Studies
Director of undergraduate studies: Jonas Elbousty (jonas.elbousty@yale.edu); 
www.yale.edu/macmillan/cmes
The Modern Middle East Studies major focuses on the culture, history, religion, 
politics, and society of the modern Middle East in its full geographical breadth, while 
developing expertise in any of the major languages associated with the region, namely 
Arabic, Hebrew, Persian, and Turkish. Courses are drawn from departments in the 
humanities and social sciences, including Anthropology, History, History of Art, Jewish 
Studies, Political Science, Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations, Religious Studies, 
and Sociology. The Modern Middle East Studies major gives students the analytical 
and linguistic skills necessary to master the complex issues of the Middle East and 
serves as excellent preparation for graduate study or for professional careers in which an 
understanding of that region is essential.
requirements Of the Major
See Links to the attributes indicating courses approved for the Modern Middle East 
major requirements.
The major allows students to develop highly individualized courses of study, tailored 
to their own academic, intellectual, and linguistic interests. There are no prerequisites. 
Twelve term courses are required for the major, including one course at the L5 level in 
a Middle Eastern language and two survey courses on the modern period, taken at the 
introductory level. Beyond those requirements, students take eight distribution courses 
focusing on any aspect of the culture, thought, history, religion, politics, and society 
of the region. These eight distribution courses must be spread geographically and 
temporally and draw from distinct methodological or disciplinary approaches. They 
must include, at a minimum, two courses from diﬀerent regions or countries within 
the M
iddle East, two courses from diﬀerent departments or programs, two courses that 
focus substantially on the period before 1750, and two advanced seminars. Up to two 
language courses below L5 in a Modern Middle East language may count toward the 
distributional requirement with the approval of the director of undergraduate studies 
(DUS). The proposed course of study also requires DUS approval.
Credit/D/Fail/uni2002No course taken Credit/D/Fail may be applied toward the requirements 
of the major. 
Outside credit Courses taken at another institution or during an approved summer or 
term-time study abroad program may count toward the major requirements with DUS 
approval.
Senior Requirement
Students in the major undertake a one- or two-term senior essay that involves use of 
materials in one or more modern Middle Eastern languages. Each student selects a 
faculty adviser with competence in the appropriate language. A prospectus and outline 
signed by the adviser must be submitted to the DUS by the end of the fourth week of 
classes in either term of the senior year. Senior essays are graded by the adviser and a 
second reader. See the course descriptions of the senior essay courses (MMES 4491, 
4492, 4493) for further information. Alternatively, under supervision of the instructor, 372            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
majors may take an additional seminar and write an essay in that course to fulﬁll the 
senior requirement.
SUMMARY OF MAJOR REQUIREMENTS
Prerequisites  None
Number of courses 12 term courses
Distribution of courses/uni20022 intro survey courses on the Middle East, focusing on 
the modern period; 2 courses from diﬀerent Middle Eastern regions or countries; 
2 courses from two diﬀerent departments or programs; 2 courses with focus on 
pre-1750; 2 adv seminars; and 1 course at L5 level in a Middle East language
Substitution permitted With DUS approval, up to 2 language courses below L5 in 
Modern Middle East language may count toward distributional requirement
Senior requirement
 One-term senior essay (MMES 4491), two-term senior essay 
(MMES 4492, 4493), or essay written in additional seminar
FACULTY ASSOCIATED WITH THE PROGRAM OF MODERN MIDDLE EAST 
STUDIES
Professors/uni2002Frank Griﬀ el (Religious Studies), Hannan Hever (Comparative Literature), 
Marcia Inhorn ( Anthropology ), Ivan Marcus (History), Alan Mikhail (History), A. 
Mushﬁq Mobarak ( School of Management), Kishwar Rizvi (History of Art), Maurice 
Samuels (French), Shawkat Toorawa (Near Eastern Languages & Civilizations)
As
sociate Professors/uni2002 Thomas Connolly (French), Robyn Creswell (Comparative 
Literature), Zareena Grewal ( American Studies ), Kaveh Khoshnood (Public Health), 
Eliyahu Stern ( Religious Studies), Jonathan Wyrtzen (Sociology), Travis Zadeh (Religious 
Studies)
Assistant Professors/uni2002Supriya Gandhi ( Religious Studies), Samuel Hodgkin 
(Comparative Literature), Jill Jarvis (French), Elizabeth Nugent (Political Science), Eda 
Pepi (Women’s, Gender, & Sexuality Studies), Claire Roosien (Slavic Languages and 
Literatures), Evren Savci (Women’s, Gender, & Sexuality Studies)
Senior Lecturer/uni2002 Tolga Köker (Economics)
Lecturers/uni2002Karla Britton (Architecture), Teresa Chahine (School of Management), Emma 
Sky (Global Aﬀairs )
Senior Lectors II/uni2002 Sarab Al Ani, Shiri Goren
Senior Lectors/uni2002Muhammad Aziz, Jonas Elbousty, Dina Roginsky, Farkhondeh 
Shayesteh, Orit Yeret
Lector Ezgi Yalcin