Music         389
Music
Director of undergraduate studies: Anna Zayaruznaya  (anna.zayaruznaya@yale.edu); 
yalemusic.yale.edu
The Department of Music oﬀ ers introductory and advanced instruction in the history 
of music, the theory of music, composition, music technology, and performance. The 
Music major provides a general music program in the humanities, as well as 
preparation for graduate studies or music careers.
Courses for Nonmajors and Majors
Introductory courses, numbered from 1000 to 1999, are open to all undergraduates and 
require no previous experience in music.
Qualiﬁed students, whether majoring in music or not, may o ﬀer up to four terms of 
instruction in performance for academic credit toward the 36-course-credit requirement 
for the bachelor’s degree. Of these four course credits, up to three may be applied to the 
major in Music. Auditions for lessons are held at the beginning of the fall term; 
students sign up at the School of Music auditions website. Students who audition for 
lessons are placed into one of three groups: (1) noncredit instruction for a fee; (2) 
lessons for academic credit at the intermediate level (MUSI 3245), graded Pass/Fail; or 
(3) lessons for academic credit at the advanced level (MUSI 4245), graded A–F. Only 
students with exceptional proﬁciency are placed into MUSI 4245.
Students accepted for noncredit instruction are charged $550 for ten hours of lessons 
per term or $350 for six hours of lessons per term. The fees are added to the Student 
Financial Services bill and are not refundable after the ﬁrst two weeks of lessons each 
term.
Course Numbering
Introductory courses are numbered from 1000 to 1999. Intermediate courses, 
numbered between 2000 and 3999, may require prerequisites or familiarity with 
music notation. Advanced courses, numbered between 4000 and 4994, are intended 
for students who have completed intermediate courses in the relevant ﬁeld. They are 
intended primarily for students majoring in music, but they may be elected by others 
who meet the stated prerequisites.
Corequisites and Lessons
Students taking MUSI 3245 or 4245 are required to enroll concurrently in a non-
introductory music theory or music history course for two terms, or they must 
complete one term of the theory/history requirement before enrolling in MUSI 3245 
or 4245 for the ﬁrst time, and another before enrolling in MUSI 3245 or 4245 again. 
MUSI 3245 is taken pass/fail; MUSI 4245 and the corequisites are taken for a letter 
grade. Eligible corequisites include MUSI 1111 or any course designated as Group I, III, 
or IV within the music major.
Placement Procedures 
There is no longer a placement test for the music theory curriculum; instead, we invite 
students to identify the right course for them by using our self-placement guide  and 
consulting with the course instructors.390            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
Requirements of the Major
See Links to the attributes indicating courses approved for the Music 
major requirements.
Thirteen courses are required, two intermediate courses and one advanced course in 
each of four groups, and the senior requirement. Group I (MUSI 2100–2199; 3100–
3199; 4100–4199) includes music theory and technology courses focused on the 
materials and structures of musical works and repertoires. Group II (MUSI 2200–2299; 
3200–3299; 4200–4299) includes composition, technology, and performance courses 
with a practical focus on techniques of artistic production. Group III (MUSI 2300–
2399; 3300–3399; 4300–4399) includes lectures and seminars taking a research- and 
writing-based approach to the Western art-music tradition. Group IV (MUSI 2400–
2499; 3400–3499; 4400–4494) includes lectures and seminars taking a research- and 
writing-based approach to popular or vernacular music or to music of non-Western 
traditions.
With permission of the DUS, students may count one 1000-level course towards the 
major in place of an intermediate course within the appropriate group. 
Credit/D/Fail/uni2002No course taken Credit/D/Fail may be applied toward the requirements 
of the major.
Outside credit Courses taken at another institution or during an approved summer or 
term-time study abroad program may count toward the major requirements with DUS 
approval.
Senior Requirement
Each student majoring in Music must satisfy the senior requirement by completing a 
senior essay, composition, or recital in MUSI 4996 , 4997, 4998, or 4999.
The standard major Students must submit a completed Senior Project Form to the 
director of undergraduate studies (DUS) by the end of the course selection period in 
the term during which the project will be completed. The Senior Project Form, available 
in the departmental oﬃce, includes a brief description of the project and a timeline for 
completion. The form must be signed by the project's primary and secondary advisers, 
at least one of whom is a member of the faculty of the Department of Music.
The intensive major The intensive major is for students of high standing who are 
qualiﬁed to do sustained independent and original work in music research or in 
composition. Students wishing to elect the intensive major must register for the 
senior project in the fall term of their senior year (MUSI 4997–4999). A plan for 
progress must be included in the project proposal at the beginning of the fall term, 
specifying a deliverable end-of-term product with approximately the same scope as a 
one-term senior project. Upon satisfactory completion of this work, a student may be 
admitted to the intensive major, which consists of a second term of registration for the 
senior project (MUSI 4997–4999). The additional course for the intensive major is 
supplementary to the thirteen term courses that constitute the standard major.
Advising
Simultaneous B.A./M.A. program Undergraduates with exceptionally strong 
preparation in music history or music theory may complete a course of study leading to 
the simultaneous award of the B.A. and M.A. degrees after eight terms of enrollment. Music         391
Students may not enroll in Yale College for more than eight terms to qualify for the 
simultaneous award of both degrees. Declared majors in Music may apply for the 
program until the last day of classes in their ﬁfth term of enrollment, if they have 
completed at least two graduate courses in the Department of Music, at least one 
numbered 7000 or higher, with grades of B+ or above, and if their overall grade average 
is A– or above. Applicants must demonstrate progress toward proﬁciency in a foreign 
language examined by the Department of Music.
Students in the simultaneous program fulﬁll the requirements for the intensive major in 
Music. They also take eight graduate courses in the Department of Music, with average 
grades of B+ or higher and grades of A or A– in at least two of the courses. They satisfy 
the Yale College requirements for the program (see Academic Regulations, section L, 
Special Academic Arrangements, “Simultaneous Award of the Bachelor’ s and Master’ s 
Degrees”), and they pass a departmental examination in a modern foreign language.
B.A./M.M. program The Bachelor of Arts/Master of Music program is designed for 
students with outstanding abilities in performance who are also interested in a liberal 
arts education. Admission to the B.A./M.M. program is through acceptance into Yale  
College as well as a separate, successful audition through the School of Music, either  
before matriculation into Yale College or during the third year of the B.A. program. 
For details regarding the B.A./M.M. program, please consult the Yale School of Music  
online bulletin.
Students cannot accelerate the undergraduate program in the B.A./M.M. program.
SUMMARY OF MAJOR REQUIREMENTS
Prerequisites  None
Number of courses 13 term courses numbered 2000 or above (incl senior req)
Distribution of courses 2 intermediate courses and 1 advanced course from each Group 
I–IV
Senior requirement  One-term senior essay, composition, or recital in MUSI 4996–
4999
Intensive major T wo-term senior essay or project in MUSI 4997–4999; additional 
course is supplementary to the 13 req courses
FACULTY OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MUSIC
Professors Kathryn Alexander (Adjunct), Richard Cohn, Daniel Harrison, Gundula 
Kreuzer, Richard Lalli (Adjunct), Ian Quinn (Chair), Gary Tomlinson, Michael Veal
Associate Professors  Robert Holzer (Adjunct), Konrad Kaczmarek (Adjunct), Brian 
Kane, Markus Rathey (Adjunct), Braxton Shelley, Anna Zayaruznaya
Assistant Professors/uni2002Ameera Nimjee, Jessica Pertiz, Lindsay Wright
Lecturers Phil Acimovic, Nathaniel Adam, Trevor Bača, Maiani da Silva, Daniel Egan, 
Grant Herreid, Annette Jolles, Sara Kohane, Ian MacMillen, Joshua Rosenblum, Wendy 
Sharp