392            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
Naval Science
Program adviser:  Commander Sean Cooper (sean.cooper@yale.edu), 55 Whitney Ave., 
432-8223; nrotc.yalecollege.yale.edu
The Naval Reserve Oﬃcers Training Corps (NROTC) program educates young men 
and women for service as commissioned oﬃ cers in the United States Navy or Marine 
Corps. NROTC develops future o ﬃcers morally, mentally, and physically, and instills 
in them the highest ideals of duty and loyalty and the core values of honor, courage, 
and commitment. The Naval Science program prepares students to assume the highest 
responsibilities of command, citizenship, and government.
Academic Requirements
The Naval Science curriculum includes courses on topics such as Navy and Marine 
Corps organization, at-sea navigation, leadership, naval history, amphibious warfare, 
engineering, weapons systems, and ethics. Courses emphasize development of 
professional knowledge and leadership skills, which are placed in the context of military 
service immediately following graduation from Yale College.
Students in the NROTC program enroll in one Naval Science course per term. Most 
Naval Science courses count for enrollment credit only; they do not count toward 
the thirty-six course credits required for the Yale bachelor's degree. NAVY 2110 and 
NAVY 4120 do count toward graduation credit. Some courses are required for both 
Navy and Marine option students, while others are speciﬁc to the branch of service. All 
NROTC students must also enroll in the Naval Science Laboratory each term.
Navy-option students must complete eight core curriculum courses oﬀered by Yale 
College: two term courses in calculus to be completed by the sophomore year, two term 
courses in calculus-based physics (with laboratory) to be completed by the junior year, 
two term courses in English or equivalent writing courses, one term course in history or 
national security policy, and one term course in world culture or regional studies.
Credit/D/Fail: No course taken Credit/D/Fail may be counted toward the program in 
Naval Science.
For Navy students, the usual sequence of Naval Science courses is:
First-Year Sophomore Junior Senior
Introduction to Naval 
ScienceSeapower & Maritime 
AﬀairsNaval Engineering Naval Operations & 
Seamanship
Navigation Leadership & 
ManagementNaval Systems Ethics and the 
Profession of Arms
Marine-option students must complete three core curriculum courses oﬀered by Yale 
College, including two term courses in English or equivalent writing courses, and one 
term course in history or national security policy.Naval Science         393
For Marine Corps students, the usual sequence of Naval Science courses is:
First-Year Sophomore Junior Senior
Introduction to Naval 
ScienceSeapower & Maritime 
AﬀairsElective Evolution of Warfare
Elective Leadership & 
ManagementFundamentals of 
Maneuver WarfareEthics and the 
Profession of Arms
Advising and Application to the Program
Application to the National Scholarship Program  Eligible applicants must use the 
online application to complete and submit all the required information to apply for 
the NROTC scholarship. Applicants select either the Navy or Marine Corps option 
and scholarship recipients are appointed midshipmen in either the United States 
Naval Reserve or United States Marine Corps Reserve, as appropriate. Scholarship 
recipients are granted the compensation and beneﬁts authorized by law and current 
policy for a total period not to exceed four years (forty months or ﬁfty months with 
approved ﬁfth year beneﬁts). During this period, the United States government pays 
for college tuition, authorized academic fees, a textbook stipend, and a subsistence 
allowance, and provides uniforms or compensation in lieu. Upon conferral of a degree, 
graduates are commissioned into the Navy or Marine Corps for a minimum of ﬁve years 
of active duty service.
Application to the College Program Students without a scholarship who are in their 
ﬁrst or second year may apply for enrollment in the College Program and compete 
for two- or three-year scholarships. If selected for the two- or three-year Scholarship 
Program, students receive the same beneﬁts as students in the National Scholarship 
Program for their remaining undergraduate studies. Upon conferral of a degree, 
graduates of the College Program are commissioned into the Navy or Marine Corps for 
a minimum of three years of active duty service. Yale students interested in the College 
Program may apply directly to the Yale University NROTC Unit.
FACULTY OF THE NAVAL SCIENCE program
Professor/uni2002Captain William Johnson, USN (Adjunct)
Lecturers  Commander Sean Cooper, USN; Captain Sumer Johnson, USMC; 
Lieutenant Nicholas Gioia, USN; Lieutenant Paige Miles, USN