394            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations
Director of undergraduate studies: Shiri Goren (shiri.goren@yale.edu); nelc.yale.edu
The major in N
ear Eastern Languages and Civilizations (NELC) explores the history 
and cultural traditions of the ancient, classical, and modern Middle East, including 
northeast Africa. Students acquire proﬁciency in languages and skills for interpreting 
literature, art, and material culture from ancient Egypt and Mesopotamia; late antiquity 
and Classical Islam; or the contemporary moment, explored through the modern 
languages of Arabic, Hebrew, Persian, and Turkish. Inherently interdisciplinary, the 
program emphasizes analytic and reﬂective learning.
While the Near East is studied for its own intrinsic literary, historic, and artistic 
interest, as well as its cultural and historical legacies, study of a world distant in time 
and space also can open new ways of understanding our own. NELC majors go on to 
careers in government, foreign service, international ﬁnance, law, education, and even 
medicine and public health. The major also provides a strong foundation for graduate 
study and academic research.
Languages oﬀ ered include: modern Arabic, Hebrew, Persian, and Turkish (including 
Ottoman Turkish); Classical Arabic and Classical Persian; Biblical Hebrew and ancient 
Assyrian & Babylonian, Egyptian, Old Persian, Syriac, and Sumerian. Students with 
experience in any of the modern languages must take a placement test at the beginning 
of the fall term. See the  department website or the Center for Language Study for 
de
tails. 
All modern languages, as well as ancient Assyrian & Babylonian, Egyptian, and Biblical 
Hebrew are oﬀered in multi-year sequences and can be taken to fulﬁll the foreign 
language requirement. The department also o ﬀers Advanced Language Certiﬁcates 
in Arabic, Hebrew, and Turkish; ancient Egyptian; and an interdisciplinary certiﬁcate 
in Persian and Iranian Studies. Many majors undertake intensive language study abroad 
during the summers, and the language faculty advises students on recommended 
programs.
COURSE NUMBERING
Courses numbered NELC 0010–0990 are ﬁrst-year seminars, with enrollments capped 
at 18. Courses in the NELC 1000–1999 range are introductory lecture courses, and 
NELC 2000–2999 are seminars with enrollment capped at 18. These courses have 
no prerequisites and are designed for students of any background or major. Courses 
designated NELC 3000–3990 are more challenging and typically meet once a week. 
N
umbers in the NELC 4000–4999 designate courses oﬀered by visiting scholars or are 
courses related to the senior project.
Requirements of the Major 
See Links to the attributes indicating courses approved for Near Eastern Languages and 
Civilizations major requirements.
The major requires twelve term courses, including the senior requirement. Working 
with the director of undergraduate studies (DUS), students develop coherent programs 
of study in one of two concentrations.Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations          395
Near Eastern Languages & Civilizations Concentration (Depth) This concentration 
is for students who wish to focus in depth on a particular language and/or civilization, 
such as ancient Egypt or Mesopotamia; the classical Near East or medieval Islam; or 
modern Near Eastern culture through research conducted in modern Arabic, Hebrew, 
Persian, or Turkish. Contextualized through the study of literature, religion, art and 
archaeology, and history, this concentration enables students to study intensively 
a civilization of the Near East through in-depth study of one or two Near Eastern 
languages and written texts in their original languages.
Requirements to earn the depth concentration are 6 term courses in one or two 
Near Eastern languages; one NELC Foundations course; four NELC electives, 
chosen in consultation with the DUS (no more than two may be counted from other 
departments/programs); and the senior project (see below).
Near Eastern Languages, Civilizations, and Culture Concentration (Breadth) This 
concentration is suitable for students wishing to study the languages and civilizations 
of the Near East more broadly. It provides ﬂexibility to study the Near East in its 
historical and cultural breadth, and to explore its long-lived civilizations over time 
or comparatively. Students in this concentration take a range of classes and, in 
consultation with the DUS, design their course of study according to their speciﬁc 
interests. Recent examples include ancient Near Eastern literature, philosophy in 
medieval Islam, memory and nostalgia in novels of a Soviet emigre to (the modern state 
of) Israel.
Requirements to earn the breadth concentration  are four term courses in Near Eastern 
languages; two NELC Foundations courses; ﬁve NELC electives, including one on the 
ancient Near East, one on the medieval Near East, and one on the modern Middle East; 
and the senior project (see below).
Near Eastern Languages and Civilization majors are encouraged to take related courses 
in other departments and programs to complement their interests and round out their 
intellectual formation. These typically include courses in Anthropology, Archaeology, 
Classics, Comparative Literature, Islamic Studies, Judaic Studies, History, History of 
Art, History of Science, Medicine and Public Health, Philosophy, and Religious Studies. 
Above all, complementary courses should be chosen according to the interests of the 
student and in consultation with the DUS or faculty adviser. If courses outside the 
department include substantial Near Eastern content and are relevant to the student's 
overall program of study, they may be approved at the discretion of the DUS toward the 
elective requirement for the major. No more than two courses taken from outside the 
department can be counted toward fulﬁlling the major.
Credit/D/Fail/uni2002No more than one course taken Cr/D/Fail can be applied toward the 
requirements of the major.
Outside credit Courses taken at another institution or during an approved summer or 
te
rm-time study abroad program may count toward the major requirements with DUS 
approval. A maximum of two outside credits is allowed.
Senior Requirement 
The senior requirement is an opportunity for students to design and execute an 
independent research project, bringing to bear their intellectual curiosity as well as 396            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
philological and analytic skills honed during their time at Yale. It is also a chance to 
be mentored by a member of the faculty who serves as adviser to the project, which 
typically culminates in an essay of about 25-35 pages (one-semester project) or 45-55 
pages (year-long project). Conversations about the senior project should begin with 
the DUS no later than fall of junior year, especially if the student plans to undertake 
summer research travel.
In rare occasions and only with advanced written agreement of the instructor and the 
DUS
, a research paper for an upper-level seminar may be developed and expanded 
to satisfy the senior requirement. In such cases, the project must constitute work 
substantially beyond the requirements of the seminar paper.
Each year the DUS provides majors with resources, guidelines, and for juniors and 
seniors, a timetable of deadlines for both the one-semester and year-long senior project. 
Seniors present their respective projects in a senior showcase event in April.
SUMMARY OF MAJOR REQUIREMENTS
Prerequisites/uni2002 None 
Number of courses/uni200212 term courses (including the senior req)
Distribution of courses/uni2002Near Eastern Languages & Civilizations concentration (Depth)—
6 term courses in 1 or 2 Near Eastern languages; 1 Foundations course; and 4 
electives; Near Eastern Languages, Civilizations, and Culture concentration (Breadth)—
4 term courses of 1 or more Near Eastern languages; 2 Foundations courses; 5 NELC 
electives to include 1 ancient, 1 medieval, and 1 modern 
Senior requirement NELC 4920 and/or NELC 4930
Cer
tiﬁcate of Advanced Language Study
The Department of Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations oﬀers a Certiﬁcate 
of Advanced Language Study in Ancient Egyptian, Arabic, Hebrew, and Turkish. A 
certiﬁcate adviser, typically the language program coordinator or the DUS, advises 
students on the certiﬁcation process. The Certiﬁcate of Advanced Language Study, once 
completed, is listed on the student's transcript.
Requirements for the arabic, hebrew, and Turkish certiﬁcates
Students seeking to earn the certiﬁcate are required to take four courses beyond the L4 
level in their chosen language, at least two of which must be Yale courses designated as 
L5. All courses must be taken for a letter grade, and students must achieve a grade of B 
or above. With prior approval of the adviser, one advanced non-L5 Yale course and/or a 
course graded pass/fail, conducted in the target language, such as an independent study 
course (for Turkish certiﬁcates only), a graduate seminar, or an advanced seminar may 
count toward certiﬁcation requirements.
The certiﬁcate adviser may allow one “language across the curriculum” (LxC) course 
taught in English to count toward the certiﬁcation requirements provided the course 
includes at minimum a weekly discussion section conducted entirely in 
the target language. The discussion section must enroll a minimum of three students 
and the course must be designated as LxC in the course description.Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations         397
The certiﬁcate adviser may also approve the substitution of up to two credits earned 
during study abroad and taught in the target language to count toward the certiﬁcate 
requirements. If the adviser approves courses taken outside of Yale for inclusion in 
the certiﬁcate requirements, students are responsible for taking the necessary steps to 
ensure that those courses appear on their transcripts.
Requirements for the Ancient Egyptian certiﬁcate
Students seeking to earn the certiﬁcate are required to take four courses beyond the 
L3 level, at least two of which must be Yale courses designated as L5. All courses must 
be taken for a letter grade, and students must achieve a grade of B or above. With the 
approval of the certiﬁcate adviser, an advanced texts seminar, and/or a graduate seminar 
may count toward certiﬁcation requirements. At the discretion of the certiﬁcate adviser, 
students may, with prior permission, substitute a maximum of two courses of credit-
bearing academic study abroad.
Credit/D/Fail/uni2002No courses taken Credit/D/Fail may be counted toward the 
requirements of any of the certiﬁcates.
Declaration of Candidacy
Students must declare their intention to earn a Certiﬁcate on the Declare Major, 
Concentration within the Major, Certiﬁcate page on Yale Hub, as early as possible, but 
at the very latest, by the 15th of January or September in their last semester at 
Yale. Once declared, Degree Audit tracks students' progress toward completion 
of the certiﬁcate.
FACULTY OF THE DEPARTMENT OF NEAR EASTERN LANGUAGES AND 
CIVILIZATIONS
Sarab Al Ani, Victoria Almansa-Villatoro, Muhammad Aziz, Gojko Baramovic, 
Nicholas Brown, John Darnell, Jonas Elbousty, Ozgen Felek, Benjamin Foster, Eckart 
Frahm, Shiri Goren, Agnete Lassen, Gregory Marouard, Jane Mikkelson, Christopher 
Minkowski, Nadine Moeller, Randa Muhammed, Dina Roginsky, Emilie Sarrazin, 
Farkhondeh Shayesteh, Kathryn Slanski, Netta Sovinsky, Avary Taylor, Shawkat 
Toorawa, Kevin Van Bladel, Klaus Wagensonner, Harvey Weiss, Meryem Ezgi Yalcin, 
Orit Yeret