398            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
Neuroscience
Directors of undergraduate studies:  Damon Clark ( neuroscience.dus@yale.edu ) 
(MCDB), YSB C148; Steve Chang  (steve.chang@yale.edu ) (Psychology), 100 College 
St.; neuroscience.yale.edu
Neuroscience aims to understand how the brain produces the mind and behavior, with 
the goal of advancing human understanding, improving physical and mental health, 
and optimizing performance. This entails a broad, interdisciplinary eﬀort that spans 
from molecules to minds. At one end, biology, chemistry, and physics are improving 
our understanding of the molecular and cellular mechanisms of neuronal signaling 
and development. At the other end, psychology, psychiatry, and computer science link 
neural processes and systems to the mind and behavior. At all levels, the rich array 
of methods and data analysis depends on a strong foundation in the basic sciences, 
mathematics, statistics, and computer science.
Prerequisites
The foundational biology courses required of all Neuroscience majors 
are BIOL 1010 , 1020, 1030, and 1040 . All majors must also complete one of the 
following: PSYC 2100 , S&DS 1030 , 1050, 2300, 2380.
Placement Procedures
When declaring the major, students are encouraged to send a completed Neuroscience 
major worksheet to the department registrar ( neuroscience.registrar@yale.edu) to help 
with advising. We encourage all majors to take the Human Brain ( NSCI 1600) and 
Neurobiology ( NSCI 3200 ) as early as possible since these courses provide foundations 
for the NSCI curriculum and independent research.
Requirements of the Major
See Links to attributes indicating courses approved for Neuroscience 
major requirements.
A minimum of 18.5 credits is required, including the prerequisites (5 courses for 3 
credits), 15 lecture or seminar courses (which include the senior requirement), and one 
laboratory, as follows:
1.Two Neuroscience foundation courses, NSCI 1600 and 3200.
2.One Neuroscience lab ( YC NSCI Neuroscience Lab) chosen from NSCI 2280L,
2290L, 2400, NSCI 2580 , 2600, 2700, 3210L; PSYC 2538 .
3.Eleven electives from the following core groupings. Students may search for
approved courses using the attributes indicated in each core grouping. The complete list
of approved courses can be found on the NSCI website.
•minimum of 2 courses from Systems/Circuits/Behavior Core ( YC NSCI Systems/
Circuit/Behav)
•minimum of 2 courses from Molecular/Cellular/Biological Core ( YC NSCI Molecular/
Cell/Biol)
•minimum of 1 course from Quantitative Core ( YC NSCI Quantitative )
•minimum of 1 course from Computational Core (YC NSCI Computational )Neuroscience          399
•minimum of 1 course from Basic Allied Core ( YC NSCI Basic Allied Core)
•no more than 2 courses from Other Allied Core ( YC NSCI Other Allied)
Credit/D/Fail/uni2002 No course taken Credit/D/Fail may be applied toward the requirements 
of the major, including prerequisites.
Outside credit  Courses taken at another institution or during an approved summer or 
term-time study abroad program may count toward the major requirements with DUS 
approval.
Senior Requirement
In addition to the course requirements described above, all students must satisfy a 
senior requirement undertaken during the senior year. All students must ﬁll out a 
checklist of requirements and go over it with the undergraduate registrar by the spring 
term of the junior year.
B.S. degree program/uni2002The B.S. degree program requires two-course credits of empirical 
research, NSCI 4900 and 4910. These courses are only available to Neuroscience 
seniors and receive a letter grade. Students are expected to spend at least 10 hours per 
week in the laboratory, to complete written assignments, and to give a presentation. In 
addition to time in the lab, and as part of NSCI 4900 and 4910, students are expected 
to attend a semi-regular capstone seminar, hear guest speakers, and discuss senior 
work progress with their peers and the directors of undergraduate studies (DUSs.) 
Research can be conducted over original, archival, or consortium data sets. Written 
assignments include a short research plan due at the beginning of the fall term, a grant 
proposal due at the end of the fall term, and a ﬁnal report due at the end of the spring 
term. Students should pursue the same research project for two terms, with the grant 
proposal guiding and serving as the background for the research and ﬁnal report. 
Seniors are also required to present their research in the spring term at a poster session. 
Students should ﬁnd a research laboratory during the term preceding the research. 
Yale College does not grant academic credit for summer research unless the student 
is enrolled in an independent research course in Yale Summer Session. To register 
for NSCI 4900 and 4910, students must submit a form and the research plan with a 
bibliography, approved by the faculty research adviser and a DUS, by the end of the 
ﬁrst week of classes.
B.A. degree program/uni2002The B.A. degree program requires two course credits in 
nonempirical research, NSCI 4800 and 4810; or one credit in nonempirical research, 
NSCI 4800 or 4810, and one credit in empirical research, NSCI 4900 or 4910. These 
courses are only open to Neuroscience seniors and receive a letter grade. Under 
faculty supervision, for NSCI 4800 or 4810, students are required to conduct original 
research for at least 10 hours per week that does not involve direct interaction with 
data, such as developing a theory or conducting a meta-analysis to synthesize existing 
ﬁndings. A literature review without novel intellectual contributions is not adequate. 
Written assignments include a short research plan due at the beginning of the fall 
term, a literature review or draft theoretical paper due at the end of the fall term, and a 
theoretical paper due at the end of the spring term. Seniors are also required to present 
their research in the spring term at a poster session. To register, students must submit 
a form and the research plan with a bibliography, approved by the faculty adviser and a 
DUS, by the end of the ﬁrst week of classes.400            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
M
ore detailed guidelines, forms, and deadline information are available on the program 
website.
Additional information
Independent research courses before senior year . The only independent research 
courses available to students prior to senior year are NSCI 4700 , 4710. These courses 
are graded Pass/Fail and count toward the thirty-six credits required for the bachelor's 
degree, but they do not substitute for any NSCI major requirement, including the 
senior requirement. Independent research courses do not satisfy the lab requirement for 
the NSCI major. These courses are for non-Senior Neuroscience students only.
Advising
Due to overlap in the major course requirements, the Neuroscience major should not 
be combined with a second major in Molecular, Cellular and Developmental Biology or 
Psychology.
Program advisers/uni2002 Each term, students should update their Neuroscience major 
worksheet and then meet with their assigned faculty adviser to discuss their schedule 
and review their worksheet. These documents should then be submitted to the 
Neuroscience registrar for DUS review and approval. For questions concerning credits 
for courses taken at other institutions, or courses not listed in Yale Course Search, 
students should contact the Neuroscience registrar.
SUMMARY OF MAJOR REQUIREMENTS
Prerequisites/uni2002 BIOL 1010 , 1020, 1030, and 1040 ; and one of PSYC 2100,  2300 , 2380
Number of courses/uni2002 18.5 credits (including prereqs and senior req)
Speciﬁc courses required/uni20022 neuroscience foundation courses, NSCI 1600 and 3200
Distribution of courses/uni2002 B.S. or B.A.—1 lab course; 11 electives including at least: 2 
Systems/Circuits/Behavior Core courses, 2 Molecular/Cellular/Biological Core courses, 
1 Quantitative Core course, 1 Computational Core course, 1 Basic Allied Core course, 
and no more than 2 Other Allied Core courses
Senior requirement/uni2002 B.S.—2 empirical research courses, NSCI 4900  and 4910; B.A.—
2 nonempirical research courses, NSCI 4800  and 4810, or 1 empirical research course 
(NSCI 4900  or 4910) and 1 nonempirical research course ( NSCI 4800  or 4810)
FACULTY OF THE NEUROSCIENCE MAJOR
Professors  †Amy Arnsten ( School of Medicine, Psychology), Ty Cannon ( Psychology), 
John Carlson ( Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology), Marvin Chun 
(Psychology ), Damon Clark ( Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology), Thierry 
Emonet ( Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology), Jutta Joormann ( Psychology ), 
Douglas Kankel ( Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology), Haig Keshishian 
(Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology), †John Krystal (School of Medicine, 
Psychology ), Rajit Manohar ( Electrical Engineering ), †Linda Mayes ( School of Medicine, 
Psychology ), Greg McCarthy ( Psychology ), Wendy Mendes ( Psychology ), Kia Nobre 
(Psychology ), Laurie Santos ( Psychology ), †Dana Small ( School of Medicine, Psychology), 
†Jane Taylor ( School of Medicine, Psychology ), Nick Turk-Browne (Psychology)Neuroscience         401
Associate Professors Arielle Baskin-Sommers (Psychology),  Abhishek Bhattacharjee 
(Computer Science), †Sreeganga Chandra (School of Medicine, Molecular, Cellular, and 
Developmental Biology), Steve Chang (Psychology),  †Philip Corlett (School of Medicine, 
Psychology ), Dylan Gee (Psychology), Smita Krishnaswamy (Genetics), †Ifat Levy (School 
of Medicine, Psychology), †James McPartland (School of Medicine, Psychology), Weimin 
Zhong (Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology)
Assistant Professors Maria Gendron (Psychology), Randolf Helfrich (Psychology), Julia 
Leonard (Psychology), Samuel McDougle (Psychology), Harry McNamara 
(Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology),  Michael O’Donnell (Molecular, Cellular, 
and Developmental Biology), Priya Panda (Electrical Engineering), Robb Rutledge 
(Psychology), Shreya Saxena (Biomedical Engineering), Ilker Yildirim (Psychology )
Lecturer
 Stephanie Lazzaro (Psychology)
†A joint appointment with a primary aﬃliation in another department or school.