402            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
Persian and Iranian Studies Certiﬁcate
Certiﬁcate director: Samuel Hodgkin (samuel.hodgkin@yale.edu)
This certiﬁcate recognizes the work of undergraduates who combine the study of 
Persian language and literature with a wider engagement with the art, philosophy, 
religion, history, politics, and culture of the Persian-speaking world. Students seeking 
to earn the certiﬁcate will develop a strong sense of community with peers interested 
in this area of study. These students will typically fall into three categories: 1) 
non-humanities majors (and pre-meds) with a strong interest in Persian and 
Iranian studies; 2) social science and humanities majors in non-NELC departments 
wishing to formalize their particular focus on Iran or Persian culture; and 3) Persian 
heritage students and students of Turkish, South Asian, Armenian, Central Asian, or 
other post-Persianate cultural backgrounds, for whom the certiﬁcate provides a way 
for them to explore their heritage.
requirements
See the Link to the YC Persia & Iran Content attribute indicating courses approved for 
certiﬁcate requirements.
Students must successfully complete 5 course credits and attend 3 events. Events 
include, but are not limited to Iran Colloquium lectures, sessions of Persian Circle, or 
screenings of Persian-language ﬁlms by the language program. Students submit a 1 –2 
page write-up about each event to the certiﬁcate director. Events will be announced 
through the Certiﬁcate email list and will appear on the CMES events calendar.
Courses are drawn from a list of approved courses and must be taken for a letter grade 
of B or above. The 5 required courses are divided between 3 content courses and 2 
language courses. Courses that do not appear on the approved list may be approved by 
permission of the certiﬁcate director.
The content courses  are concerned with the art, philosophy, religion, history, politics, 
and culture of the Persian-speaking world, and are identiﬁed by the attribute, YC Persia 
& Iran Content in Yale Course Search. Only two content courses should originate in the 
same department. Courses in premodern Iranian languages (e.g. Old Persian, Middle 
Persian, Soghdian) are content courses. All Persian L5 courses are content-oriented and 
can be counted either as a content course or a language course.
To complete the language requirement, students must complete two courses in Persian 
language (L1-L5).
Graduate and professional school courses may count toward the certiﬁcate. No more 
than two course credits fulﬁlling the requirements of the Persian and Iranian Studies 
Certiﬁcate may overlap with a major, a simultaneous degree, or another certiﬁcate. 
Additionally, no course credit may be applied toward the requirements of more than 
two curricular programs. For example, the same course credit may not be used to fulﬁll 
the requirements of two certiﬁcates and a major.
Credit/D/Fail   No course taken Credit/D/Fail may be applied toward the requirements 
of the certiﬁcate.Persian and Iranian Studies Certiﬁcate         403
Outside credit Courses taken at another institution or during an approved summer or 
term-time study abroad program may count toward the major requirements with DUS 
approval
Declaration of Candidacy
Students must declare their intention to earn a Certiﬁcate on the Declare Major, 
Concentration within the Major, Certiﬁcate page on Yale Hub, as early as possible, but 
at the very latest, by the 15th of January or September in their last semester at 
Yale. Once declared, Degree Audit tracks students' progress toward completion 
of the certiﬁcate.
Summary of Requirements 
Number of courses/uni20025 course credits
Distribution of courses/uni2002 3 content courses and 2 language courses
Additional requirements/uni2002attendance of 3 events, and submission of a 1–2 page write-
up for each