404            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
Philosophy
Director of undergraduate studies: Daniel Greco ( daniel.greco@yale.edu); 
(daniel.greco@yale.edu )philosophy.yale.edu
The Philosophy major prepares students to reﬂect critically and creatively on questions 
concerning the nature of things, the scope and limits of human understanding, and 
the principles of value and right action. The major aims to address these questions 
wherever they arise, whether in the philosophical tradition, in other disciplines and 
practices, or in everyday life. Our courses are designed to encourage depth in thinking, 
rigor in argument, clarity in writing and speaking, and the widest possible view of 
whatever subject matter we take up.
Course Numbering
Courses numbered with the initial digit 0 are ﬁrst-year seminars and have no 
prerequisites. Courses with the initial digit 2 are intermediate-level courses. Some have 
prerequisites; others do not and may be taken as a student's ﬁrst course in philosophy, 
though such a student should consult the instructor ﬁrst. In general, it is a good idea 
to take a broadly based course in any area of philosophy before taking a specialized 
course. Courses numbered with initial digits 3 and 4 are advanced and are taught as 
limited enrollment seminars. These courses are intended primarily for juniors and 
seniors, though other students may be admitted with the instructor ’s permission. 
Undergraduates should be sure they have enough background to take such a course, 
including previous work in the same area of philosophy.
Prerequisites
Prerequisite to the standard major are two introductory or intermediate philosophy 
courses. Prerequisite to the concentration in psychology are two introductory or 
intermediate courses in philosophy or psychology.
Requirements of the Major
See Links to the attributes indicating courses approved for the Philosophy 
major requirements.
The Philosophy curriculum is divided into three broad groups: history of 
philosophy; metaphysics and epistemology; and ethics and value theory (See Course 
Attributes). The group to which a course belongs is indicated in Yale Course Search 
(YCS). This information is found in the 
“course information” section of each course 
listing. Students can search for courses satisfying a given group requirement in YCS by 
clicking the drop-down menu titled, “Any Course Information Attribute.”
The standar
d major requires twelve term courses (including the prerequisites and the 
senior requirement) that collectively expose students to a wide range of philosophy 
and philosophers. In the history of philosophy group, majors are required to take 
(1) PHIL 1125 and PHIL 1126 (DRST 0003 and DRST 0004 can substitute for
PHIL 1125 and 1126), and (2) an additional, third course in history of philosophy. 
Majors are encouraged to take PHIL 1125 and PHIL 1126 as early as possible; these 
courses may be taken in either order. Majors must also complete two courses in 
metaphysics and epistemology, two courses in ethics and value theory, and a course 
in logic (such as PHIL 1115), the last preferably by the fall of their junior year. MajorsPhilosophy         405
must also take two advanced seminars at the 3000+ level (either or both of which can 
be counted toward one of the group requirements) and satisfy the senior requirement 
as described below.
All courses in Philosophy count toward the twelve-course requirement. With 
approval from the director of undergraduate studies (DUS), courses oﬀered by other 
departments may be counted toward the major requirements, though no more than two 
such courses will normally be allowed.
Speciﬁc regulations for the group requirements are as follows:
1.Some introductory courses do not count toward any group requirement.
2.Courses automatically count toward the group under which they are listed in Yale
Course Search  (YCS). In rare cases, a course will be designated as counting
toward a second group, although no one course can be counted toward two group
requirements. Students may petition to have a course count toward a group other
than the one under which it is listed, though the presumption will be against such
petitions.
3.Courses taken in other departments and applied to the major will not normally
count toward a group requirement. Students may petition for credit toward a group
requirement, though the presumption will be against such petitions.
The psychology concentration/uni2002The psychology concentration is designed for 
students interested in both philosophy and psychology. Majors in the concentration 
must take seven courses in philosophy and ﬁve in psychology, for a total of twelve, 
including the prerequisites and senior requirement. The seven philosophy courses 
must include (1) two courses in the history of philosophy, usually PHIL 1125 and 
PHIL 1126 or DRST 0003 and DRST 0004, (2) a course in logic, such as PHIL 1115, 
preferably by the fall of the junior year, (3) two seminars, one of which may be in the 
Psychology department, with the approval of the DUS, and (4) at least two courses 
at the intermediate or advanced level that bear on the intersection of philosophy and 
psychology, at least one of which must be a philosophy seminar. Courses satisfying (4) 
must be approved by the DUS. The ﬁve psychology courses must include PSYC 1100 or 
its equivalent. Each major must also satisfy the senior requirement as described below.
Credit/D/Fail/uni2002 At most one class taken Credit/D/Fail can count toward the 
requirements of the major. Courses taken Credit/D/Fail cannot fulﬁll any speciﬁc 
distribution requirements within the major—they cannot fulﬁll the group 
requirements, the seminar requirement, the senior requirement, or (on the psychology 
track) the intersection requirement. But if all those requirements are fulﬁlled with 
classes taken for a letter grade, then one of the remaining 12 total credits may be fulﬁlled 
with a class taken Credit/D/Fail, however, that course will count as a non-A grade when 
calculating for distinction in the major.
Outside credit Courses taken at another institution or during an approved summer or 
te
rm-time study abroad program may count toward the major requirements with DUS 
approval.
Senior Requirement
The senior requirement is normally satisﬁed by completing a third philosophy seminar. 
Students taking a seminar to satisfy the senior requirement are expected to produce 406            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
work superior in argument and articulation to that of a standard seminar paper. To 
this end, students taking a seminar for the senior requirement must satisfy additional 
requirements, which may include (1) additional readings, (2) submission of a complete 
draft of the ﬁnal paper by the eighth week of the term that will then be signiﬁcantly 
revised, and (3) one-on-one or small-group meetings with the instructor to discuss 
class material, the additional readings, and drafts in preparation. The speciﬁc nature 
of these additional requirements will vary from seminar to seminar. Students planning 
to satisfy the requirement with a third seminar should express that intention to the 
instructor at the beginning of the term, so the instructor can explain the work that will 
be required.
In special cases, students may meet the senior requirement through either a one-term or 
a two-term independent project supervised by an instructor (PHIL 4490 , PHIL 4491 ). 
Students must petition to fulﬁll the senior requirement through an independent 
project, and approval is not guaranteed. Applicants must submit a proposal to the 
DUS, in consultation with an appropriate supervisor, by the end of the term prior to 
beginning the independent study.
Advising
By default, advising in the philosophy department is done by the DUS. Juniors have the 
option of selecting an alternative adviser—which should be done by the ﬁrst of October 
in the junior year—but all seniors are advised by the DUS. The adviser aids students in 
choosing courses.
Other majors involving philosophy/uni2002Majors in Mathematics and Philosophy and 
in Physics and Philosophy are also available. Students interested in philosophy and 
psychology should also consider the major in Cognitive Science.
SUMMARY OF MAJOR REQUIREMENTS
Prerequisites/uni2002Standard major—2 intro or intermediate phil courses; Psychology 
concentration—any 2 courses in phil or psych
Number of courses/uni200212 term courses, incl prereqs and senior req
Speciﬁc courses required/uni2002Standard major—PHIL 1125  and PHIL 1126 , or DRST 0003
and DRST 0004; Psychology concentration—PSYC 1100 or equivalent
Distribution of courses/uni2002 Standard major—3 courses in hist of phil (incl PHIL 1125  and
PHIL 1126 , or DRST 0003 and DRST 0004), 2 in metaphysics and epistemology, 
2 in ethics and value theory, and 1 in logic; 2 phil sems at 3000+ level; Psychology 
concentration—7 courses in phil, as speciﬁed; 5 courses in psych (incl PSYC 1100)
Substitution permitted/uni20022 related courses in other depts, with DUS permission
Senior requirement/uni2002a third sem in phil, or a one- or two-term independent project 
(PHIL 4490 , PHIL 4491 )
FACULTY OF THE DEPARTMENT OF PHILOSOPHY
Professors/uni2002Stephen Darwall, Michael Della Rocca, Keith DeRose, Paul Franks, Tamar 
Gendler, Robert Gooding-Williams, Daniel Greco, Verity Harte, Brad Inwood, Shelly 
Kagan, Joshua Knobe, LA Paul, Thomas Pogge, Scott Shapiro, Sun-Joo Shin, Steven 
Smith, Jason Stanley, Zoltán Szabó, Gideon YaﬀePhilosophy         407
Associate Professors/uni2002Tim Clarke, Robin Dembroﬀ, John Pittard
Assistant Professors/uni2002Tyler Brooke-Williams, Claudia Dumitru, Lily Hu, Jacob 
McNulty