418            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
Political Science
Directors of undergraduate studies: Andrea Aldrich (andrea.aldrich@yale.edu);  
politicalscience.yale/edu
Political science addresses how individuals and groups organize, allocate, and challenge 
the power to make collective decisions involving public issues. The goal of the major 
is to enable students to think critically and analytically about the agents, incentives, 
and institutions that shape political phenomena within human society. The subﬁelds 
of political philosophy and analytical political theory (which includes the study 
of both qualitative and quantitative methodology) support the acquisition of the 
lenses through which such thought skills can be enriched. The subﬁelds of American 
government, comparative politics, and international relations, in turn, allow students 
to reinforce and reﬁne those skills, while also promoting their application to a wide 
variety of contexts, whether contemporary or historical. Students may also construct 
interdisciplinary curricula, which allows them to apply the approaches of the discipline 
to a topic for which a more complete understanding also involves approaches gleaned 
from other disciplines.
Requirements of the Major
See Links to the attributes indicating courses approved for Political Science 
major requirements.
Students following the standard B.A. degree program  must take twelve term courses. 
These courses include: at least two introductory courses (i.e designated with a 1 as the 
ﬁrst digit); at least one course designated as belonging to the methodology and formal 
theory subﬁeld; at least two non-introductory lectures designated as “core; ” at least two 
classes in each of any two of the department’s subﬁelds (other than methodology and 
formal theory)—international relations, American government, political philosophy, 
and comparative politics; at least two seminars, including at least one during their 
senior year.
All students may also take courses related to political science that are o ﬀered by other 
departments. Students who elect the standard program may petition to count up to 
two such courses toward the major. Students may routinely count Residential College 
Seminars taught by members of the Political Science faculty toward the major, and they 
may petition to count one Residential College Seminar taught by an instructor outside 
the department. Students who have completed Directed Studies may, with the approval 
of the DUS, count one term of DRST 0005 or DRST 0006 toward the major.
Students following the standard B.A. degree program, interdisciplinary concentration  
are allowed to identify and pursue an area of study that crosses conventional 
disciplinary and departmental boundaries. Examples of interdisciplinary concentrations 
include (but are not limited to) urban studies, health politics and policy, political 
economy, political psychology, or a focus on the politics of a given global region 
informed by the study of the history and society of that region. Students choosing an 
interdisciplinary concentration are required to take twelve term courses toward the 
major. At least seven courses must be in the ﬁeld of concentration. Of the courses 
counting toward the major outside of the ﬁeld of concentration, at least two courses 
must be taken in each of any two of the department's ﬁve ﬁelds. As many as Political Science          419
three courses taken in other departments may be counted toward the major, with the 
permission of the DUS. Note: students who choose the interdisciplinary concentration 
must fulﬁll the introductory course requirement, the core lecture requirement, the 
methodology and formal theory subﬁeld requirement, and the seminar requirement as 
described for the standard degree program.
Students wishing to pursue the Political Science major with an interdisciplinary 
concentration must submit an application, which is due prior to the beginning of the 
November recess in the student's ﬁnal year of enrollment. Students should also meet 
with the DUS to discuss their proposed program of study in their sophomore or junior 
year.
The intensive major/uni2002The intensive major allows students to undertake more extensive 
coursework and research for the senior essay than is possible in the standard major. 
Requirements for the intensive major are identical to those for the standard program or 
interdisciplinary concentration, with the following exceptions: (1) in the spring term of 
the junior year, intensive majors take PLSC 4900  in preparation for writing a yearlong 
senior essay; (2) in the senior year, intensive majors fulﬁll the senior essay requirement 
by enrolling in the yearlong course sequence PLSC 4901  and PLSC 4903.
Juniors wishing to pursue an intensive major must apply to the DUS. The application 
should contain: (1) the intensive major application form signed by a faculty adviser 
who has agreed to supervise the student for the ﬁnal three terms of enrollment; (2) a 
plan of study that identiﬁes the political science courses that will be taken in those three 
terms; and (3) a one-page description of the proposed senior essay.
Seminar requirement/uni2002 Students majoring in Political Science are required to take at 
least two seminars taught by members of the Political Science department, including at 
least one during the senior year.
Credit/D/Fail /uni2002Students may count up to two lecture courses taken Credit/D/Fail 
toward the requirements of the major. Seminars taken Credit/D/F do not count toward 
the major requirements.
Senior Requirement 
Seniors in the major have two options for completing the senior essay. All students 
may complete the requirement with an essay in a senior seminar. Students pursuing 
honors in the major must complete an honors senior essay. In order to graduate from 
Yale College, a student majoring in Political Science must achieve a passing grade on 
the essay.
Honors essays  can be written either in one term or over both terms of the senior year.
Honors senior essay eligibility  will be granted to students who have current GPA 
of 3.7 in all PLSC courses  where a letter grade is awarded and they have completed 
the following requirements of the major: two introductory level courses, one core 
lecture course, one seminar with a member of the Political Science department, and a 
methodology course. An application form for the honors essay must signed by a faculty 
advisor and the requirements listed above must be met or in progress at the time of 
application.
Senior essay/uni2002 The senior essay provides an appropriate intellectual culmination to the 
student's work in the major and in Yale College. The essay should ordinarily be written 420            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
on a topic in an area in which the student has previously done coursework, and an eﬀort 
should be made to demonstrate how the student's work relates to broader topics, issues, 
and approaches within the discipline of political science. It should rest on research 
that is appropriate to the subject matter and should reﬂect an awareness of how the 
student's topic is connected to previous work within the discipline of political science. 
Essays are expected to be in the range of 25–30 double-spaced pages. At the time a 
student applies to pursue the honors essay, students must have their senior essay topic 
approved by a faculty member who has agreed to advise them. Each student is expected 
to consult regularly with the seminar instructor or adviser and take the initiative in 
developing a plan of research, scheduling regular meetings, and submitting preliminary 
drafts for review.
One-term essays may be written either in a seminar or, with the approval of an adviser 
and the DUS, in PLSC 4900 . More extensive information about the senior essay can be 
found on the department website . 
Yearlong senior essay/uni2002Students who wish to undertake a more extensive research 
project than is possible in a single term may fulﬁll the senior essay requirement by 
enrolling in the yearlong course sequence PLSC 4900 and PLSC 4901 . Both classes 
are oﬀered in both terms, but must be taken in order. PLSC 4900 also counts toward 
the senior seminar requirement. In the ﬁrst term, students writing a yearlong senior 
essay develop a research prospectus for the essay and begin their research under the 
supervision of a member of the faculty who specializes in the area being investigated. In 
the second term, students complete the essay. Yearlong senior essays are expected to be 
substantially longer than a regular term paper. While there is no ﬁxed length, they are 
normally at least ﬁfty pages long.
Majors who wish to enroll in the yearlong senior essay must apply for the honors essay 
track in their junior year. By the appropriate date, students should submit to the oﬃce 
of the DUS: (1) the honors essay application, (2) a senior essay form signed by a faculty 
adviser who has agreed to supervise the student during both terms of the senior year; 
and (3) a one-page statement describing the research project.
Honors in the major  will be awarded to students who achieve an A or A- grade for the 
honors essay, which also meets the standard for honors (as determined by a second 
reader appointed by the DUS), and who achieve a minimum 3.7 GPA in all Political 
Science courses where a letter grade is awarded.
Advising
The DUS and other members of the department can provide advice about departmental 
requirements, options within the major, requirements of two majors, study abroad, and 
other matters related to the major. Although advisers (beyond the DUS and the senior 
essay adviser) are not formally assigned, students are encouraged to seek advice from 
other department faculty members who are knowledgeable about their ﬁelds of interest. 
Information on faculty interests can be found on the  department website.
Combined B.A./M.A. degree program/uni2002 Exceptionally able and well-prepared students 
may complete a course of study leading to the simultaneous award of the B.A. and 
M.A. degrees after eight terms of enrollment. See Academic Regulations, section L,
Special Academic Arrangements , “Simultaneous Award of the Bachelor's and Master'sPolitical Science         421
Degrees.” Interested students should consult the DUS prior to the sixth term of 
enrollment for speciﬁc requirements in Political Science.
Study Abroad
Students who study in the summer term or in a junior term abroad program may, 
with the approval of the DUS, count up to two courses toward the major. Students 
who study in a junior year abroad program may, with the approval of the DUS, count 
up to four courses toward the major. Students may also petition to have non-Yale 
courses that were not taught in political science departments count toward the major. 
Pending approval of the DUS, these courses will count toward the maximum number 
of substitutions.
SUMMARY OF MAJOR REQUIREMENTS
B.A. DEGREE, STANDARD PROGRAM
Prerequisites/uni2002 None
Number of courses/uni2002Standard major—12 term courses; intensive major—15 term courses
Distribution of courses/uni2002
2 intro courses; 2 core lectures; 2 seminars (1 in senior year); 
1 course in methodology and formal theory subﬁeld; 2 courses in each of any two 
subﬁelds/uni2002(excluding methodology and formal theory subﬁeld)
Substitution permitted/uni20022 courses from other depts with DUS approval
Senior requirement/uni20021-term senior essay in sem or in PLSC 4900; or 2-term senior 
essay in PLSC 4900, PLSC 4901
Intensive major/uni20021 addtl elective; PLSC 4900 in spring term of junior year; 2-term 
senior essay in PLSC 4901, PLSC 4903
B.A. DEGREE, INTERDISCIPLINARY CONCENTRATION
Prerequisites/uni2002None
Number of courses/uni2002Standard major with interdisciplinary concentration—12 term courses; 
intensive major with inter
disciplinary concentration—15 term courses
Distribution of courses/uni20027 courses in concentration: 2 intro courses; 2 core lectures; 
2 seminars (1 in senior year); 1 course in methodology and formal theory subﬁeld; 
outside of concentration: 2 courses in each of any two subﬁelds
Substitution permitted/uni2002 3 courses from other depts with DUS approval (2 courses from 
other depts with DUS approval for intensive major)
Senior requirement/uni2002 1-term senior essay in sem or in PLSC 4900; or 2-term senior 
essay in PLSC 4900, PLSC 4901; both options on subject within concentration
Intensive major/uni20021 addtl elective; PLSC 4900 in spring term of junior year; 2-term 
senior essay in PLSC 4900, PLSC 4901 on subject within concentration
FACULTY OF THE DEPARTMENT OF POLITICAL SCIENCE
Professors/uni2002Bruce Ackerman, Akhil Amar, Seyla Benhabib (Emeritus), David Cameron 
(Emeritus), Jennifer Gandhi, Bryan Garsten, Alan Gerber, Jacob Hacker, Gregory 
Huber, Hélène Landemore, Joseph La Palombara (Emeritus), Isabela Mares, David 422            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
Mayhew (Emeritus), Adam Meirowitz, Gerard Padro i Miquel, Doug Rae (Emeritus), 
John Roemer (Emeritus), Susan Rose-Ackerman (Emeritus), Nicholas Sambanis, 
Kenneth Scheve, Jasjeet Sekhon, Ian Shapiro, Stephen Skowronek, Steven Smith, 
Milan Svolik, Peter Swenson (Emeritus), Steven Wilkinson, Elisabeth Wood
Associate Professors/uni2002P. Aronow, Katharine Baldwin, Alexander Coppock, Ana De La O, 
Alexandre Debs, Joshua Kalla, Daniel Mattingly
Assistant Professors/uni2002Kevin DeLuca, Allison Harris, Melody Huang, Christina Kinane, 
Shiro Kuriwaki, Egor Lazarev, Soyoung Lee, Charles McClean, Giulia Oskian, Didac 
Queralt, Noam Reich, Lucia Rubinelli, Emily Sellars, Ian Turner
Senior Lecturers/uni2002Stephen Latham, David Simon
Lecturers/uni2002Andrea Aldrich, David Allison, Federico Brandmayr, Greg Collins, John 
DeStefano, Kevin Elliott, Amir Fairdosi, Michael Fotos, Karen Goodrow, Maria Jose 
Hierro, Mordechai Levy-Eichel, Max Lewis, Joanne Lipman, Alexander Rosas, Eleanor 
Schiﬀ, Daniel Schillinger, Gordon Silverstein, Sushant Singh, Heather Wilford, Graeme 
Wood, Lauren Young