Portuguese          423
Portuguese
Director of undergraduate studies:  Kenneth David Jackson
(k.jackson@yale.edu ); span-port.yale.edu
Portuguese is taught at Yale as part of the Department of Spanish and Portuguese.
The major in Portuguese is a liberal arts major intended to develop competence in the 
Portuguese language and to provide students with a comprehensive knowledge of the 
literatures and cultures of Portugal, Brazil, and African and Asian lands of Portuguese 
language or inﬂuence.
Prerequisite
Students begin the study of Portuguese with PORT 1100 , 1250, or S112 . After two years 
of Portuguese language study, or equivalent, students have suﬃcient proﬁciency to take 
advanced courses in Luso-Brazilian literature and culture.
The prerequisite for the major is PORT 1300  or the equivalent.
Placement Procedures
All students who have not yet taken Portuguese at Yale are expected to take the 
departmental placement test, with the exception of students who have no previous 
knowledge of Portuguese. The test covers reading, writing, speaking, and listening 
skills. See the  department website  for placement test times and details.
Requirements of the Major
The requirements for the Portuguese major consist of ten term courses beyond the 
prerequisite. Students must take at least ﬁve term courses in the literatures or cultures 
of the Portuguese world. In completing their programs, students may elect up to four 
courses in other languages and literatures, anthropology, history, or history of art, or 
from study abroad, that are related to their ﬁeld of study and approved by the director 
of undergraduate studies (DUS). 
Credit/D/Fail /uni2002No course taken Credit/D/Fail may be applied toward the requirements 
of the major.
Outside credit/uni2002 Courses taken at another institution or during an approved summer or 
term-time study abroad program may count toward the major requirements with DUS 
approval.
Senior Requirement 
All majors must present a senior essay. The essay is written in PORT 4910 and/or 4920. 
A maximum of two credits count toward the major.
Advising
Juniors and seniors majoring in Portuguese may, with the permission of the instructor 
and the director of graduate studies, enroll in graduate courses in Portuguese.
SUMMARY OF MAJOR REQUIREMENTS
Prerequisite/uni2002 PORT 1300  or equivalent
Number of courses /uni200210 term courses beyond prereq (incl senior essay course)424            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
Distribution of courses/uni2002At least ﬁve term courses in literatures or cultures of the 
Portuguese world
Substitution permitted/uni2002 With DUS permission, up to 4 relevant courses from other 
depts or study abroad; with DUS permission, courses taken at another institution or 
during an approved summer or term-time study abroad program may count toward the 
major requirements.
Senior requirement/uni2002 Senior essay (PORT 4910 and/or 4920)
Certiﬁcate of Advanced Language Study
Certiﬁcate Director : Kenneth David Jackson (k.jackson@yale.edu)
The Department of Spanish and Portuguese oﬀers a Certiﬁcate of Advanced Language 
Study in Portuguese. A certiﬁcate adviser, typically the director of undergraduate 
studies (DUS), advises students on the certiﬁcation process and certiﬁes to the 
University Registrar’s Office that students have completed the stated requirements 
be
fore the end of eight terms of study. The Certiﬁcate of Advanced Language Study, 
once certiﬁed, is listed on the student transcript.
Requirements
Students seeking to earn the certiﬁcate are required to take four courses, all beyond 
the L4 level in Portuguese, at least two of which must be Yale courses designated as 
L5. All courses must be taken for a letter grade, and students must achieve a grade of 
B or above. With the approval of the certiﬁcate adviser, one advanced non-L5 course, 
conducted in Portuguese, such as an independent study course (graded pass/fail), a 
graduate seminar, or an advanced seminar may count toward certiﬁcation requirements.
The adviser may approve the substitution of one credit earned as part of a Yale or 
Yale-designated study abroad program and taught in Portuguese to count toward 
the certiﬁcate requirements. If the adviser approves courses taken outside of Yale for 
inclusion in the certiﬁcate requirements, students must take the necessary steps to 
ensure those courses appear on their transcripts.
Credit/D/Fail/uni2002No courses taken Credit/D/Fail may be counted toward the 
requirements of the certiﬁcate.
Declaration of Candidacy
Students must declare their intention to earn a Certiﬁcate on the Declare Major, 
Concentration within the Major, Certiﬁcate page on Yale Hub, as early as possible, but 
a
t the very latest, by the 15th of January or September in their last semester at 
Yale. Once declared, Degree Audit tracks students' progress toward completion 
of the certiﬁcate.
FACULTY OF THE DEPARTMENT OF SPANISH AND PORTUGUESE
Professors/uni2002Santiago Acosta, Aníbal González-Pérez, K. David Jackson, Nicholas R. 
Jones, Olivia Lott, Noël Valis, Jesús R. Velasco, Aurélie Vialette, Lisa Voigt
Senior Lector II/uni2002 Jorge Méndez-Seijas
Senior Lectors I/uni2002 María Pilar Asensio-Manrique, Carolina Ba ﬃ, María José Gutiérrez 
Barajas, Mercedes Carreras, Sebastián Díaz, María de la Paz García, Rosamaría León, Portuguese         425
Luna Nájera, Juliana Ramos-Ruano, Lissette Reymundi, Lourdes Sabé-Colom, Noelia 
Sanchez Walker, Giseli Tordin, María M. Vázquez
Lectors/uni2002Mariana Centanin Bertho, Igor De Souza, Kevin Ennis, Sarah Glenski, Mayte 
López, Ian Russell
Senior Lecturer II/uni2002Alex Gil