Quantum Science and Engineering Certiﬁcate          431
Quantum Science and Engineering Certiﬁcate
Certiﬁcate director: Yongshan Ding (yongshan.ding@yale.edu)
Q
uantum information science and engineering explores how the principles of quantum 
mechanics can be harnessed to encode, manipulate, process, learn, and distribute 
information in fundamentally novel ways. This rapidly evolving ﬁeld unites experts 
from physics, computer science, engineering, chemistry, and material science to develop 
revolutionary technologies in computing, simulation, sensing, timing, and networking, 
promising transformative impacts across society.
REQUIREMENTS
See Links to the attributes indicating courses approved for the certiﬁcate requirements.
Students must complete ﬁve courses (5 credits), one of which must be PHYS 3450 or 
CPSC 4470. The remaining four courses may be chosen from courses oﬀered by the 
Applied Physics, Chemistry, Computer Science, Electrical Engineering, Global Aﬀairs, 
Mathematics, Physics, or Statistics & Data Science departments. Courses that fulﬁll the 
requirements of the certiﬁcate carry the YC Quantum Elective attribute. The minimum 
grade for all courses is a C.
No more than two course credits may overlap in the fulﬁllment of the requirements 
of the Quantum Science & Engineering Certiﬁcate and of a major, a simultaneous 
degree, or another certiﬁcate. In addition to the Yale College course overlap policy, 
students earning this certiﬁcate may not overlap any 1000/2000 level courses; only 
two 3000+ level courses may overlap. Additionally, no course credit may be applied 
toward the requirements of more than two curricular programs. For example, the 
same course credit may not be used to fulﬁll the requirements of two certiﬁcates and 
a major. Approved graduate and professional school courses may count toward the 
certiﬁcate. Non-Yale courses may not count toward the certiﬁcate. Students are also 
encouraged to participate in the following optional activities:
•Join the Yale Undergraduate Quantum Computing group (YuQC)
•Participate in YdQC and other quantum hacakathons
•Attend colloquia oﬀered by the Yale Quantum Institute
•Tour the Yale Quantum Institute laboratories
Credit/D/Fail/uni2002 No course taken Credit/D/Fail may be applied toward the requirements 
of the certiﬁcate.
Declaration of Candidacy
Students must declare their intent to earn a certiﬁcate by the last day of add/drop 
period in their ﬁnal term of enrollment. This is done on the Declare Major, Concentration 
within the Major, Certiﬁcate  page on Yale Hub. Once declared, Degree Audit will track 
students' progress toward completion of the certiﬁcate.
Summary of requirements
Number of courses/uni20025 course credits
Distribution of courses/uni2002PHYS 3450 or CPSC 4470  and 4 electives that carry the YC 
Quantum Elective attribute