432            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
Religious Studies
Director of undergraduate studies: Eric Greene, ( eric.greene@yale.edu ) 320 York 
Street, 432-4857; religiousstudies.yale.edu
Religious Studies oﬀers a curriculum of challenging coursework that explores and 
critically analyzes religious traditions and systems of value. The many diverse courses 
delve into the history and meaning of rituals, canonical and non-canonical texts, and 
theological and social categories and how they have been shaped by and construct 
institutions, habits, hierarchies, and collectives. The study of religion probes the 
organization of society, gender roles, global aﬀairs, war, violence, terrorism, and 
conﬂicting orthodoxies. Multiple disciplinary lenses and methodological approaches 
inform and shape the ﬁeld, including: anthropology, history, philosophy, philology, 
psychology, and sociology. Courses on religious practices and formations span the 
globe over the course of history, from antiquity until the present day. The curriculum 
also addresses competing value systems that circulate in pop culture and politics, with 
studies of fundamentalism, spirituality, secularism, atheism, and consumerism.
The Department of Religious Studies is particularly known for its promotion of 
scholarly research by undergraduates. The tight cohort of majors have the unique 
opportunity to work closely with leading scholars of the ﬁeld. The curriculum enables 
majors to acquire the linguistic, philosophical, and historical acumen necessary for 
in-depth research projects during their senior year. While courses normally have no 
prerequisites, some advanced seminars may require the permission of the instructor. 
The multidisciplinary nature of Religious Studies makes it attractive both for students 
seeking two majors and for those seeking to delve deep into a ﬁeld of study as it relates 
broadly to the humanities.
Requirements of the Major
The Religious Studies major requires twelve term courses, to include a core of ﬁve 
courses, a junior seminar (RLST 4900), a two-term senior essay (see below) and four 
electives. Religious Studies majors develop specialized areas of expertise as they plan 
a coherent program in consultation with the director of undergraduate studies (DUS) 
and other members of the faculty.
Core requirement A core of ﬁve courses in Religious Studies is required of all majors 
and should be selected in consultation with the DUS. These courses should originate 
in the Religious Studies department and carry a RLST subject code. One of the core 
courses must be an introductory course, numbered 0001–1999; another must introduce 
breadth into the student's core area of study; the remaining three courses must form 
a cohesive cohort of courses leading students to the area of expertise upon which they 
write their senior essay. 
Electives/uni2002The four elective courses are designed to complement a student’s area of 
expertise. Collectively they should form the basis for advanced work in the major 
conducted during the senior year. These electives can be taken either within or beyond 
the Department of Religious Studies. They can comprise language study, topics 
and methods from other disciplines, or further advanced coursework within the 
department. Through these electives, students develop expertise in methods, regions, 
historical periods, or bodies of literature that inform their area of study and their work Religious Studies         433
for the senior essay. Students pursuing a double major or an outside certiﬁcate may 
count up to two courses taken for the fulﬁllment of their other major or certiﬁcate 
toward the elective requirement in Religious Studies.
Credit/D/Fail/uni2002 No more than 1 course taken Credit/D/Fail may be applied toward the 
requirements of the major. RLST 4900 may not be taken Credit/D/Fail.
Outside credit Courses taken at another institution or during an approved summer or 
te
rm-time study abroad program may count toward the major requirements with DUS 
approval.
Senior Requirement
Students must write a senior essay under the supervision of a faculty adviser in the 
student ’s core area of study. In selecting a senior essay topic, students normally choose a 
subject on which they have completed coursework before commencing the senior year. 
The essay counts as two courses toward the major and is taken in both terms of the 
senior year. The student should begin choosing a senior essay topic during the second 
term of the junior year, and early in the ﬁrst term of the senior year must submit a 
Statement of Intention approved by a faculty adviser and the DUS. The senior essay 
courses, RLST 4910 and RLST 4920, include research and writing assignments as 
well as colloquia in which seniors present and discuss their research. Students submit 
at least ten pages of the essay to the DUS by the last day of classes in the ﬁrst term in 
order to receive a grade of "satisfactory" for that term.
ADVISING
Students majoring in Religious Studies who plan to do graduate work in the subject 
are strongly encouraged to study the languages that they will need for their graduate 
programs.
Courses in the Divinity School Some Divinity School courses may count toward the 
major, with permission of the DUS. Divinity School faculty are eligible to advise senior 
essays. Information about courses and faculty may be found in the Divinity School 
online bulletin.
SUMMARY OF MAJOR REQUIREMENTS
Prerequisites None
Number of courses 12 term courses (incl senior req)
Speciﬁc course required RLST 4900
Distribution of courses
 5 core RLST courses to include: 1 intro course (0001 –1999), 1 
breadth course, 3 related core courses; 4 electives, as described and with DUS 
permission
Substitution permitted/uni2002Divinity School courses, with DUS permission
Senior requirement Senior essay (RLST 4910, RLST 4920)
FACULTY OF THE DEPARTMENT OF RELIGIOUS STUDIES
Professors
 Stephen Davis, Carlos Eire, Hwansoo Kim, Nancy Levene, Kathryn Lofton, 
Ivan Marcus, Laura Nasrallah, Eliyahu Stern, Travis Zadeh434            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
Associate Professors Maria Doerﬂer, Eric Greene, Sarit Kattan Gribetz, Noreen 
Khawaja, T
odne Thomas
Assistant Professors Supriya Gandhi, Sonam Kachru, Marta Sanvido
Lecturers
 Jimmy Daccache, Adam Ployd, Matthew Steele