Russian         435
Russian
Director of undergraduate studies:/uni2002 Claire Roosien
(claire.roosien@yale.edu ); language coordinator: Constantine Muravnik
(constantin.muravnik@yale.edu ), HQ 535, 320 York Street, 432-0995;  slavic.yale.edu
The major in Russian oﬀered by the Department of Slavic Languages and Literatures 
acquaints students with Russian literature and culture, develops students' appreciation 
of literary values and skill in literary analysis, and gives them a basic competence 
in Russian. For an area major in Russian studies, see Russian, East European, and 
Eurasian Studies , an interdisciplinary program administered by the Department of 
Slavic Languages and Literatures.
Placement Procedures
Students who have previously studied Russian formally or informally are required to 
take the Russian placement exam. This brief oral exam helps determine which Russian 
course best ﬁts each student’s background. Contact the Russian language coordinator,
Constantine Muravnik  (constantin.muravnik@yale.edu ) to schedule the oral placement 
exam or for registration information.
Prerequisites
Prerequisite to the major is second-year Russian, RUSS 1400, 1420, 1450, or S140. The 
department oﬀers three sequences of language courses to fulﬁll the prerequisite: 
either (1) RUSS 1100 , 1200, 1300, 1400, or (2) RUSS 1250 , 1450 or (3) courses 
for heritage speakers, RUSS 1220 , 1420. Prospective majors should complete the 
prerequisites by the end of their sophomore year or accelerate their course of study 
by taking summer courses or studying abroad. While completing the prerequisite, 
students are encouraged to begin fulﬁlling the requirements of the major that do not 
presuppose advanced knowledge of Russian by taking courses in Russian history and 
Russian literature in translation.
Requirements of the Major
In addition to the prerequisite, the major in Russian requires eleven term courses, 
which must include the following (some courses may fulﬁll more than one 
requirement):
1.Third-year Russian: RUSS 1500  and 1510.
2.Fourth-year Russian: RUSS 1600  and 1610.
3.Two terms of Russian literature in translation, one in 19th-century or earlier
Russian literature and one in 20th-century or later Russian literature. Russian First-
Year Seminars and courses numbered 2000 or higher may fulﬁll this requirement.
4.One content course in which Russian is the language of instruction (RUSS 1700–
1900).
5.One course in Russian, East European, or Eurasian history or social sciences.
6.RUSS 4900  or 4910. The senior essay is the intellectual culmination of the student's
work in the major. All primary sources used in the essay must be read in Russian.
If the language proﬁciency is met without coursework, these course requirements must 
be fulﬁlled through additional term courses to bring the overall total to 11 term courses. 436            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
A Yale summer program in Russian culture may be used to fulﬁll the requirements, 
with the approval of the director of undergraduate studies (DUS).
Credit/D/Fail /uni2002No course taken Credit/D/Fail may be applied toward the requirements 
of the major.
Outside credit Courses taken at another institution or during an approved summer or 
te
rm-time study abroad program may count toward the major requirements with DUS 
approval.
Senior Requirement
All majors write a senior essay (RUSS 4900 or 4910), an independent project carried 
out under the guidance of a faculty member. The senior essay takes the form of a 
substantial article, no longer than 13,000 words, excluding footnotes and bibliography. 
By the end of the junior year, students should declare their general topic and arrange for 
a faculty adviser, in consultation with the DUS. Students planning to conduct summer 
research for the senior essay, especially if abroad, should contact the DUS early in the 
spring semester of the junior year and apply for fellowships.
Students may opt to enroll in both RUSS 4900 and RUSS 4910, but only one of these 
courses counts toward the major requirements.
Optionally, students may opt to prepare for the senior essay in the term before they 
enroll in either RUSS 4900 or 4910. In this instance, students submit a proposal to 
their adviser (up to two pages double spaced) by the ﬁrst day of the term before they 
enroll in RUSS 4900 or RUSS 4910. They also submit a draft of at least ten pages, or 
a detailed outline of the entire essay by the end of the midterm break. Students ﬁnalize 
their essay during the term in which they are enrolled in RUSS 4900 or 4910. The ﬁnal 
essay is due ten days before the last day of classes, typically around April 15 for those 
students graduating in the spring or November 25 for those graduating in December. 
A member of the faculty other than the adviser grades the essay. Senior essays will be 
considered for prizes.
Students pursuing two majors need to fulﬁll the senior requirement of both majors. If 
the second major allows, students may enroll in both RUSS 4900 and 4910 and write 
an essay longer than a single-term essay. In this case, students count the second term of 
the Russian senior essay as their twelfth course in the Russian major.
Advising
Courses in the Graduate School are open to qualiﬁed undergraduates with permission 
of the instructor and of the director of graduate studies. Course descriptions are 
available at the oﬃce of the DUS.
S
tudy Abroad
Students majoring in Russian are strongly encouraged to spend a summer or a term 
studying abroad under the auspices of programs approved by the DUS. Language 
courses, as well as RUSS S241, S242, and S243, taken during the summer or during a 
term in approved programs may substitute for certain advanced Russian courses at Yale. 
Students interested in studying abroad should consult the DUS well before their junior 
year. Students can apply for FLAS and Fox fellowships to support their travel.Russian         437
SUMMARY OF MAJOR REQUIREMENTS
Prerequisite/uni2002RUSS 1400, 1420, 1450, S140, or placement exam
Number of courses 11 term courses beyond prereq (incl senior essay)
Speciﬁc courses required/uni2002RUSS 1500, 1510, 1600, 1610
Distribution of courses  1 course in 19th-century or earlier Russian literature in 
translation, as speciﬁed; 1 course in 20th-century or later Russian literature in 
translation, as speciﬁed; 1 content course taught in original language, as speciﬁed; 1 
course in Russian, East European, or Eurasian history or social sciences, as speciﬁed
Substitution permitted/uni2002 Yale summer program in Russian culture (RUSS S241, S242, 
or S243) for electives
Senior requirement  Senior essay (RUSS 4900 or 4910)
Certiﬁcate of Advanced Language Study
Certiﬁcate Director: Claire Roosien (claire.roosien@yale.edu)
The Department of Slavic Languages and Literatures oﬀers a Certiﬁcate of Advanced 
Language Study in Russian. A certiﬁcate adviser, typically the director of undergraduate 
studies (DUS), advises students on the certiﬁcation process. The Certiﬁcate of 
Advanced Language Study is listed on student transcripts.
Requirements
Students seeking to earn the certiﬁcate are required to take four courses beyond the L4 
level in their chosen language, at least two of which must be Yale courses designated as 
L5. Students should take L5 content courses only after they have completed RUSS 1510, 
Third-Year Russian II. All courses must be taken for a letter grade, and students must 
achieve a grade of B or above. With the approval of the adviser, one advanced non-L5 
course, conducted in the target language, such as an independent study course (graded 
pass/fail), a graduate seminar, or an advanced seminar may count toward certiﬁcation 
requirements. 
The certiﬁcate adviser may allow one “language across the curriculum” (LxC) course 
taught in English to count toward the certiﬁcation requirements provided the course 
includes at minimum a weekly discussion section conducted entirely in 
the target language. The discussion section must enroll a minimum of three students 
and the course must be designated as LxC in the course description.
The certiﬁcate adviser may also approve the substitution of up to two credits earned 
during study abroad and taught in the target language to count toward the certiﬁcate 
requirements. If the adviser approves courses taken outside of Yale for inclusion in the 
certiﬁcate requirements, students must take the necessary steps to ensure those courses 
appear on their transcript.
Credit/D/Fail/uni2002No courses taken Credit/D/Fail may be counted toward the 
requirements of the certiﬁcate.
Declaration of Candidacy
Students must declare their intention to earn a Certiﬁcate on the Declare Major, 
Concentration within the Major, Certiﬁcate page on Yale Hub , as early as possible, but 438            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
at the very latest, by the 15th of January or September in their last semester at 
Yale. Once declared, Degree Audit tracks students’ progress toward completion 
of the certiﬁcate.
FACULTY OF THE DEPARTMENT OF SLAVIC LANGUAGES AND LITERATURES
Professors/uni2002Edyta Bojanowska (Slavic Languages and Literatures), John MacKay (Film & 
M
edia Studies, Slavic Languages and Literatures), Marijeta Bozovic (Slavic Languages and 
Literatures )
Associate Professor/uni2002Molly Brunson (Slavic Languages and Literatures)
As
sistant Professors/uni2002 Jinyi Chu (Slavic Languages and Literatures), Claire Roosien 
(Slavic Languages and Literatures), Nari Shelekpayev (Slavic Languages and Literatures)
Senior Lector II Constantine Muravnik (Slavic Languages and Literatures), Julia Titus 
(Slavic Languages and Literatures)
Senior Lectors I/uni2002Krystyna Illakowicz (Slavic Languages and Literatures), Olha Tytarenko 
(Slavic Languages and Literatures)
Lector I Anastasia Selemeneva (Slavic Languages and Literatures)