Russian, East European, and Eurasian Studies         439
Russian, East European, and Eurasian Studies
Director of undergraduate studies: Claire Roosien
(claire.roosien@yale.edu); language coordinator: Constantine Muravnik
(constantine.muravnik@yale.edu ), HQ 538, 320 York St.; slavic.yale.edu
The major in Russian, East European, and Eurasian Studies, administered by the 
Department of Slavic Languages and Literatures, oﬀers an interdisciplinary approach 
to the study of a broad region: Russia, Ukraine, Belarus, the Caucasus, and central 
Asia; Poland, Hungary, the Czech and Slovak Republics, and other areas in east central 
Europe; and the Balkans. Students majoring in RSEE may concentrate exclusively on 
Russian Studies, or on East European or Eurasian Studies. The major is appropriate for 
students considering careers in international public policy, diplomacy, or business, and 
is also suited to students wishing to continue academic work.
Placement Procedures
Students who have previously studied Russian formally or informally are required to 
take the Russian placement exam. This brief oral exam helps determine which Russian 
course best ﬁts each student’s background. Contact the Russian language coordinator, C 
(irina.dolgova@yale.edu)onstantine Muravnik (constantine.muravnik@yale.edu), to 
schedule the or
al placement exam or for information about preregistration.
Entering ﬁrst-year students who have some knowledge of Ukrainian or Polish 
should contact Olha Tytarenko (olha.tytarenko@yale.edu) (Ukrainian) or Krystyna 
I
llakowicz (krystyna.illakowicz@yale.edu) (Polish) to arrange to take a brief placement 
e
xamination.
Prerequisites
Russian Studies concentration Completion of Second-Year Russian (RUSS 1400, 
1420,  1450 or S140) or placement exam./uni2002
East European Studies or Eurasian Studies concentration/uni2002Two semesters of the ﬁrst-
year sequence in an East European or an Eurasian language or a placement exam.
Requirements of the Major
Students select one of three concentrations to complete the requirements for the major 
in Russian, East European, and Eurasian Studies. A full understanding of these areas 
demands knowledge of its languages and therefore students are encouraged to learn 
more than one language.
Russian Studies concentration/uni2002 Twelve term courses, including the senior requirement, 
are required for the Russian Studies concentration. Students must take two 
courses in Russian, East European, or Eurasian history; one RSEE-area focused 
course in the social sciences, such as those found in anthropology, economics, 
sociology, political science, global aﬀairs, and other disciplines of social science; 
one course in Russian, East European, or Eurasian literature or culture, selected 
in consultation with the director of undergraduate studies (DUS); and the Senior 
Essay (RSEE 4900 or RSEE 4910). To fulﬁll the language requirement students 
must demonstrate a proﬁciency in Russian by completing RUSS 1500 and 1510 or by 
passing an equivalency exam. A maximum of ﬁve language courses may be counted 
toward the major. If language proﬁciency is met without coursework, the course 440            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
requirements must be fulﬁlled through additional term courses to bring the overall total 
to twelve courses. Electives are selected in consultation with the DUS and may include  
RUSS 1600 and 1610, a content course taught in Russian at the 1700–1900 level, or 
courses in other East European or Eurasian languages at the second-year level or above.
East European Studies or Eurasian concentration /uni2002Eleven term courses, including 
the senior requirement, are required for the East European and the Eurasian 
concentrations. The requirements are the same as for the Russian Studies 
concentration, excluding the language requirements. To fulﬁll the language 
requirement students must demonstrate a proﬁciency in either an East European or 
Eurasian language (such as Czech, Polish, Romanian, Bosnian-Serbian-Croatian, 
Hungarian, Ukrainian, or those languages taught through the Shared Course Initiative) 
by completing the third-year level (4 term courses) of the chosen language or by 
passing an equivalency exam. The remaining two courses are chosen in consultation 
with the DUS. If language proﬁciency is met without coursework, the course 
requirements must be fulﬁlled through additional term courses to bring the overall total 
to eleven courses.
Credit/D/Fail/uni2002No course taken Credit/D/Fail may be applied toward the requirements 
of the major.
Outside credit Courses taken at another institution or during an approved summer or 
te
rm-time study abroad program may count toward the major requirements with DUS 
approval.
Senior Requirement
All majors write a senior essay, an independent project carried out under the guidance 
of a faculty member. The senior essay takes the form of a substantial article, no longer 
than 13,000 words, excluding footnotes and bibliography. By the end of the junior 
year, students should declare their general topic and arrange for a faculty adviser, in 
consultation with the DUS. Students planning to conduct summer research for the 
senior essay, especially if abroad, should contact the DUS early in the spring semester of 
the junior year and apply for fellowships.
Students may opt to enroll in both RSEE 4900 and RSEE 4910, but only one of these 
courses counts toward the major requirements.
Optionally, students may opt to prepare for the senior essay in the term before they 
enroll in either RSEE 4900 or 4910. In this instance, students submit a proposal to 
their adviser (up to two pages double spaced) by the ﬁrst day of the term before they 
enroll in RSEE 4900 or RSEE 4910. They also submit a draft of at least ten pages, or a 
detailed outline of the entire essay by the end of the midterm break. Students ﬁnalize 
their essay during the term in which they are enrolled in RSEE 4900 or RSEE 4910. 
The ﬁnal essay is due ten days before the last day of classes, typically around April 15 
for those students graduating in the spring or November 25 for those graduating in 
December. A member of the faculty other than the adviser grades the essay. Senior 
essays will be considered for prizes.
Students pursuing two majors need to fulﬁll the senior requirement of both majors. 
If the second major allows, students may enroll in both RSEE 4900 and RSEE 4910  
and write a longer essay than for the single-term essay. In this case, students count the Russian, East European, and Eurasian Studies         441
second term of the RSEE senior essay as their 13th (Russian Studies concentration) or 
12th (East European or Eurasian concentration) course in Russian, East European, and 
Eurasian Studies.
Advising
Qualiﬁed students may elect pertinent courses in the Graduate School with the 
permission of the instructor, the director of graduate studies, and the DUS.
Graduate work The European and Russian Studies program does not offer the 
simultaneous award of the B.A. and M.A. However, students in Yale College are 
eligible to complete the M.A. in European and Russian Studies (with concentration in 
Russia and eastern Europe) in one year of graduate work. Students interested in this 
option must complete eight graduate courses in the area by the time they complete the 
bachelor's degree. Only two courses may be counted toward both the graduate degree 
and the undergraduate major. Successful completion of graduate courses while still an 
undergraduate does not guarantee admission into the M.A. program. Students must 
submit the standard application for admission to the M.A. program.
Study Abroad
There are several opportunities for study and travel in eastern Europe and Eurasia. The 
DUS can provide information on these programs and facilitate enrollment. Students 
who spend all or part of the academic year in these regions participating in established 
academic programs usually receive Yale College and major requirement credit. Students 
are strongly encouraged to take advantage of study abroad opportunities during 
summers or through the Year or Term Abroad program and should consult the DUS as 
early as possible.
SUMMARY OF MAJOR REQUIREMENTS
Prerequisites /uni2002Russian Studies concentration—RUSS 1400, 1420, 1450 or S140; East 
European and Eurasian concentrations— two courses of ﬁrst-year sequence in East 
European or Eurasian language
Number of courses/uni2002Russian Studies concentration—12 term courses beyond prereqs (incl 
senior req); East European and Eurasian concentrations—11 term courses beyond prereqs 
(incl senior req)
Speciﬁc courses required/uni2002 Russian Studies concentration—RUSS 1500 and 1510 or 
equivalency exam
Distribution of courses/uni2002All concentrations—2 courses in RSEE history; 1 RSEE-area 
focused course in the social sciences, as speciﬁed; 1 course in Russian, East European, 
or Eurasian literature or culture, in consultation with DUS; Russian Studies concentration
—up to 5 language courses and/or electives in consultation with DUS to fulﬁll total 
course requirement; East European Studies and Eurasian Studies concentrations—third-
year level in East European or Eurasian language or equivalency exam; remaining 
electives in consultation with DUS to fulﬁll total course requirement
Senior requirement Senior essay (RSEE 4900 or RSEE 4910)
FACULTY ASSOCIATED WITH THE MAJOR
Professors/uni2002Edyta Bojanowska (Slavic Languages and Literatures), Marijeta Bozovic 
(Slavic Languages and Literatures, Film and Media Studies, Women ’s, Gender, & Sexuality 442            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
Studies), Paul Bushkovitch (History), David Engerman (History), John Gaddis 
(History), John MacKay (Slavic Languages and Literatures, Film & Media Studies), 
Douglas Rogers ( Anthropology ), Marci Shore (History), Timothy Snyder ( History), Arne 
Westad (History )
Associate Professors/uni2002Molly Brunson (Slavic Languages and Literatures), Marta 
Figle
rowicz (Comparative Literature, English)
Assistant Professors/uni2002 Sergei Antonov (History), Jinyi Chu ( Slavic Languages and 
Literatures ), Sam Hodgkin (Comparative Literature), Egor Lazarev (Political 
Sciences), Claire Roosien ( Slavic Languages and Literatures), Nari Shelekpayev (Slavic 
Languages and Literatures )
Senior Lectors II/uni2002 Constantine Muravnik (Slavic Languages and Literatures), Julia Titus 
(Slavic Languages and Literatures)
Senior Lectors I/uni2002Krystyna Illakowicz (Slavic Languages and Literatures), Olha 
Tytarenko (Slavic Languages and Literatures)
Lector I Anastasia Selemeneva (Slavic Languages and Literatures)