Jackson School of Global Aﬀairs         445
Jackson School of Global Aﬀairs
For information about Yale College course oﬀerings related to global aﬀairs, see Global 
Aﬀairs.
The ﬁv
e-year B.A.–B.S./M.P.P. degree program /uni2002The B.A.–B.S./M.P.P. degree program 
in Global Affairs offers Yale College students interested in the ﬁeld of global affairs the 
opportunity to earn a bachelor’s degree from Yale College and a M.P.P. degree from the 
Jackson School of Global Affairs in a ﬁve-year joint program.
Undergraduate requirements
 In their four years of Yale College enrollment, students 
complete a standard Yale College major. So long as students are on track to complete 
their major and degree requirements, as stipulated by Yale College, and once they 
have been accepted into the B.A.-B.S./M.P.P. program, they must take a minimum 
of 3 and a maximum of 4 Jackson School graduate courses (for a total of 3, 3.5, or 4 
credits) toward their M.P.P. degree.
Master’s program requirements/uni2002Students accepted into the program must complete a 
total of 12 graduate course credits, including Jackson's core courses. At least 2 of those 
core courses must be taken during the senior year at Yale College. It is also required that 
students demonstrate proﬁciency in a modern language (L4) and complete an approved 
summer internship or project over the summer prior to their 5th year. Students must 
maintain a grade average of High Pass with at least two Honors grades. All students 
must complete Jackson ’s non-credit leadership and ethics training workshop. During 
the ﬁfth year, students are in full-time residence at the Jackson School of Global Aﬀairs 
and must complete at least 8 graduate course credits.
Admission requirements/uni2002Students apply to the B.A.–B.S./M.P.P. program in the 
spring term of the junior year. Applicants must complete an application form and 
submit all undergraduate transcripts, two letters of recommendation (at least one from 
an instructor in a Yale course), one personal statement, and approval by the dean of the 
student's residential college. Applications are submitted online through the Jackson 
School of Global Aﬀairs. Questions about admissions should be directed to Assistant 
Dean, Asha Rangappa (asha.rangappa@yale.edu).
Further information about the program may be viewed on the Jackson School of Global 
Aﬀairs website.