446            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
School of Public Health
For information about Yale College course oﬀerings related to health, see Global Health 
S
tudies.
The ﬁve-year B.A.–B.S./M. P.H. degree program/uni2002The B.A.–B.S./M. P .H. degree 
program in Public Health oﬀers Yale College students interested in the ﬁeld of public 
health the opportunity to earn a bachelor's degree from Yale College and an M. P.H. 
degree from the Yale School of Public Health (YSPH) in a ﬁve-year joint program.
Undergraduate requirements/uni2002During four years of Yale College enrollment, students 
complete any standard major. Four of the thirty-six course credits required for the 
bachelor's degree are typically taken at YSPH in partial fulﬁllment of the M.P.H. degree 
requirements. Students may take additional YSPH courses while enrolled in Yale 
College, but no more than four course credits earned in the professional schools may be 
applied toward the bachelor’s degree. Two Yale College courses selected from an 
approved list may be counted as electives toward the M.P.H. degree requirements.
Students accepted into the B.A.–B.S./M.P.H. program typically take the following 
courses at the School of Public Health while enrolled in Yale College: PUBH 505, 
Biostatistics in Public Health; PUBH 507, Social Justice and Health Equity; PUBH 508, 
Foundations of Epidemiology and Public Health; PUBH 510, Health Policy and Health 
Care Systems; and PUBH 513, Major Health Threats: Ethics and Practice.
During the summer between the fourth and ﬁfth years, students complete a public 
health internship.
Master’s program requirements/uni2002Students accepted into the program aﬃliate with 
one of seven departments or programs at the School of Public Health; this aﬃliation 
de
termines the primary adviser and the speciﬁc requirements for the ﬁve-year program. 
During the ﬁfth year, students are in full-time residence at the School of Public Health 
to complete their remaining coursework and master’s thesis.
Admis
sion requirements /uni2002Students apply to the B.A.–B.S./M. P.H. program in the 
fall te
rm of the junior year. Successful candidates present a veriﬁed commitment to 
improving the health of the public and evidence of quantitative skills. Two terms each 
of college-level mathematics, science, and social science courses are recommended, 
although some of these courses can be completed after applying to the program. 
Additional qualiﬁcations may be required by particular departments or programs. 
Applications are submitted through the School of Public Health’s application service, 
SOPHAS Expr
ess, and include transcripts, SAT scores, two letters of recommendation 
(at least one from an instructor of a Yale course), and a personal statement. Questions 
about admissions should be directed to Mary Keefe (mary.keefe@yale.edu).
Further information about the program may be viewed on the YSPH w ebsite.