444            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
School of the Environment
For information about Yale College course oﬀerings related to the environment, see 
En
vironmental Studies .
The ﬁve-year B.A. or B.S./M.E.M. or M.E.Sc. degree program/uni2002The B.A.–B.S./M.E.M. 
or M.E.Sc. degree program o ﬀers Yale College students the opportunity to earn a 
bachelor's degree from Yale College and an M.E.M. or M.E.Sc. degree from the Yale 
School of Environment (YSE) in ﬁve years.
Undergraduate requirements/uni2002During four years of Yale College enrollment, students 
may complete any standard major. The required academic preparation for the ﬁve-year 
joint degree program is outlined on the YSE website. Generally, students are expected 
to complete eight courses that are substantially equivalent to YSE courses. Such courses 
must be relevant to the YSE degree being sought and might include upper-level YC 
courses, courses that are cross-listed between YSE and YC, or graduate or professional 
school courses. It is highly recommended that applicants complete undergraduate 
coursework in the following areas: ecology or ecosystems, physical sciences, social 
sciences, microeconomics, and statistics before applying.
Master’s program requirements/uni2002By satisfying the eight course undergraduate 
requirement prior to YSE enrollment, students in the ﬁve-year M.E.M. program 
will, upon graduation, have completed coursework equivalent to the regular M.E.M. 
requirements. These include attendance at the Summer Training Modules (MODS); 
enrollment in the fall “Perspectives” course for all ﬁrst-year M.E.M. students; 
satisfying the requirements of all Foundational Knowledge courses, and an approved 
capstone course. Students admitted to the ﬁve-year program during their senior 
year are encouraged to take a gap year before attending YSE. Gap year plans must be 
communicated to the YSE Admissions Oﬃce.
The M.E.Sc. degree is intended to provide students with a deeper disciplinary focus 
than the M.E.M. All students pursuing a M.E.Sc. degree must have an adviser in place 
before applying to YSE. The intended YSE faculty adviser must provide a letter as 
part of the student’s application stating their agreement to become the prospective 
student’s YSE adviser. The speciﬁc plan to meet the requirements of the M.E.Sc. are to 
be worked out with a student’s adviser, however most continue with deeper research of 
the subjects undertaken as part of their senior thesis requirement in Yale College.
Admission requirements/uni2002Students apply to the B.A.–B.S./M.E.M. and M.E.Sc. 
program in the fall term of the senior year or in the two years immediately 
following graduation. Applications are submitted through the Yale School of the 
Environment’s application system. Questions about admissions should be directed to 
the YSE Office of Admissions at admissions.yse@yale.edu. Further information about 
the program may be viewed on the YSE website.