Sociology         447
Sociology
Director of undergraduate studies: Alex Manning  (alex.manning@yale.edu); 
sociology.yale.edu
Sociology provides the theoretical and empirical foundation for understanding how 
societies function and how they change over time. Sociologists are interested in the 
causes and consequences of processes such as the social construction of groups and 
identity, the evolution of culture, intersubjective meanings, intergroup relations, 
and hierarchies and social norms. They conduct research on individual behavior and 
outcomes such as educational attainment, jobs and careers, religious commitment, and 
political involvement; interpersonal processes such as intimate relationships, sexuality, 
social interaction in groups, and social networks; the behaviors of organizations and 
institutions; the causes and consequences of group diﬀerences and social inequality; 
and social change at the societal and global level.
The Sociology major provides both a solid foundation for students interested in careers 
in the social sciences and a strong background for a variety of professions in which 
knowledge about social processes and how societies work is relevant. Many recent 
graduates have gone on to law school, medical school, or graduate programs in public 
health, business, education, urban planning, criminology, and sociology. Others work 
in ﬁnance, consulting, publishing, marketing, city planning, teaching, research, and 
advocacy.
The Sociology department o ﬀers six undergraduate pathways leading to the B.A. 
degree: (1) the standard major focuses on sociological concepts, theories, and methods; 
(2) the concentration in economy and society focuses on the cultural frameworks, 
relationships, and social institutions that give rise to markets and shape economic 
behavior; (3) the concentration in health and society emphasizes social processes as 
they aﬀect health and medicine; (4) the concentration in data and society studies  
methods of analysis; (5) the concentration in inequality, race, and society considers  
the dimensions of how discrimination shapes society; and (6) the student-designed 
program combines sociology with a concentration in a diﬀerent subject area. Students 
inte
rested in the major are encouraged to contact the director of undergraduate studies  
(DUS) early in their academic careers to discuss potential options.
Course Numbering
Courses in Sociology are divided by level, with introductory courses numbered from 
0000–1999, courses in sociological theory from 2000 –2100, courses in sociological 
methods from 2100-2199, intermediate courses from 2000–2999, advanced courses in 
the 3000s, and individual study and research courses in the 4000s.
Prerequisite
There are no prerequisites for the Sociology major. Completing either a ﬁrst-year 
seminar or one introductory course by the end of the sophomore year is recommended.
Requirements of the Major
See Links to the attributes indicating courses approved for Sociology 
major requirements.448            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
S
tudents in the standard major get broad exposure to the sociological imagination, 
methods, and substantive areas of inquiry. Students are provided with theory and 
methods used to diagnose and resolve social problems, understand and analyze social 
processes, and describe and investigate collective behavior and its determinants. 
Requirements for the standard major include the following:
1.Thirteen term courses in sociology (including the senior requirement). At least
one must be an introductory Sociology course, but no more than two introductory
courses may count toward the total.
2.Two courses in sociological theory (SOCY 2001 and 2002)
3.One course in research design ( SOCY 2100), usually completed in spring of junior
year.
4.One course in a social science methodology (e.g., S&DS 1000 , 1100, or 3630).
5.The senior requirement
Students are held to the concentration-speciﬁc requirements that were in place 
when they declared their major . However, with approval from the DUS, the following 
requirements, updated for the academic year 2024-2025, may be fulﬁlled by students 
who declared the major in a prior term.
Concentration: Economy and Society Students in the Economy and Society 
concentration gain a broad understanding of the social dimensions of economic 
behavior, including the relational dimensions of market interactions, the relationship 
between the state and markets, religious and cultural e ﬀects, valuation processes, social 
networks, and the causes and consequences of inequality and discrimination in markets. 
Requirements for the concentration include the following:
1.Thirteen term courses in sociology (including the senior requirement). Up to four
courses relevant to the concentration (i.e. economic processes and/or their social
dimension) may be drawn from outside the Sociology department with approval
from the DUS.
2.One course in sociological theory ( SOCY 2001  or SOCY 2002 )
3.One course in research design ( SOCY 2100), usually completed in spring of junior
year.
4.One intermediate or advanced course in microeconomics (e.g. ECON 2121 or
ECON 2125 )
5.One course in a social science methodology (e.g., S&DS 1000 , 1100, or 3630).
6.Two intermediate or advanced courses on inequality or economic sociology (e.g.
SOCY 2800 , 3814, 3821, or other)
7.The senior requirement, integrating research on markets, businesses, economic
behavior, or inequality
Concentration: Health and Society Students in the Health and Society concentration 
gain a broad understanding of how factors such as socioeconomic inequality, 
demographic processes, neighborhood environments, cultural norms, and social 
networks aﬀect health and medical care. Students explore the ﬁelds of medical 
sociolog
y, stratiﬁcation, demography, and network science. The core courses in the 
concentration satisfy the social science requirements of premedical programs while also Sociology         449
providing a solid foundation for students interested in public health, health policy, and 
global health. Requirements for the concentration include the following:
1.Thirteen term courses in sociology (including the senior requirement). Up to ﬁve
courses relevant to the concentration may be drawn from outside the Sociology
department with approval from the DUS.
2.SOCY 1600  or SOCY 1601 , the gateway courses for the concentration (or other
similar course, with approval of DUS)
3.One course in sociological theory (SOCY 2001 or SOCY 2002 )
4.One course in a social science methodology (e.g., S&DS 1000 , 1100, or 3630).
5.One course in research design ( SOCY 2100), usually completed in spring of junior
year.
6.In order to build a broad base of interdisciplinary knowledge on health, students
may take up to ﬁve course credits from outside the Sociology department, with
approval from the DUS. It is recommended that students select at least one course
credit from the following:  BIOL 1010 , 1020, 1030, 1040; MATH 1120  or higher-level
MATH course; ECON 2170 .
7.Two intermediate or advanced Sociology courses relevant to the concentration
8.The senior requirement, integrating sociology with health and medicine
Concentration: Data and Society/uni2002Students in the Data and Society concentration 
gain a broad understanding of the methods used to  analyze systematic features of 
social behavior and the wide range of possible sources that can be used to research 
social patterns. This concentration focuses on methods of analysis, such as social 
networks, computational sociology, statistics, computational modeling, natural 
language processing, and others, but students are expected to also expose themselves to 
substantive areas of research to gain insight in the application of these methods to social 
problems. Requirements for the concentration are the following:
1.Thirteen term courses (including the senior requirement). Up to four courses
relevant to the concentration may be drawn from outside the Sociology department
with approval from the DUS.
2.One course in sociological theory (SOCY 2001 or 2002 )
3.One course in research design ( SOCY 2100), usually completed in spring of junior
year
4.One introductory course in statistics  (e.g., S&DS 1000, 1100, 3630, or GLBL 2121 ).
5.One intermediate or advanced course in statistics (e.g. SOCY 5610 , 5620)
6.Two additional methods courses
7.One semester of independent study as a research assistant on a sociological
topic, ideally with Sociology faculty
8.The senior requirement, integrating data-intensive approaches to social science
Concentration: Inequality, Race, and Society/uni2002Students in the Inequality, Race, and 
Society concentration gain a broad understanding of the ways in which inequality, race, 
and various forms of discrimination shape society. Inequality will be considered on 
numerous dimensions including race, ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation, and religion. 
Requirements for the concentration are the following:450            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
1.Thirtee
n term courses (including the senior requirement).  Two courses relevant to
the concentration (i.e. economic processes and/or their social dimension) may be
drawn from outside the Sociology department with approval from the DUS.
2.SOCY 1700 , the gateway course for the concentration (or other similar course
with approval of DUS)
3.One course in sociological theory ( SOCY 2001  or 2002)
4.One course in research design ( SOCY 2100), usually completed in spring of junior
year
5.One course in a social science methodology (e.g., S&DS 1000 , 1100, or 3630).
6.Five courses related to race or inequality, up to two from outside the department
7.The senior requirements, integrating research on race and/or inequality
Concentration: Student-Designed This program allows students to combine the 
study of sociology with the study of another discipline or substantive area and to 
create a program that satisﬁes their own interests and career plans. By the beginning of 
the junior year, participants in the self-designed program are expected to consult with 
the DUS to obtain approval for their course of study.
1.Thirteen term courses (including the senior requirement).
2.Up to four courses relevant to the concentration (i.e. economic processes and/or
their social dimension) may be drawn from outside the Sociology department with
approval from the DUS. The courses outside Sociology must constitute a coherent
unit alone and form a logical whole when combined with the Sociology courses.
3.Two courses in sociological theory (SOCY 2001 and 2002)
4.One course in research design ( SOCY 2100), usually completed in spring of junior
year
5.One course in a social science methodology (e.g., S&DS 1000 , 1100, or 3630).
6.One intermediate or advanced seminar in Sociology
7.The senior requirement must integrate sociology and the other subject chosen
Credit/D/Fail courses No more than two courses taken Credit/D/Fail may be applied 
toward the requirements of the major.
Outside credit
 Courses taken at another institution or during an approved summer or 
term-time study abroad program may count toward the major requirements with DUS 
approval.
Senior Requirements
For the non-intensive major Students electing the non-intensive major take one 
additional se
minar in Sociology (SOCY 3000–3999) and write a one-credit senior 
essay during the senior year (SOCY 4100). The senior essay for non-intensive majors 
is intended to be an in-depth scholarly review and critical analysis based on secondary 
sources. Students select an important topic in any sociological ﬁeld and write a 
literature review that evaluates what is known about the topic. All non-intensive majors 
are required to enroll in SOCY 4100 to receive credit for the senior essay. To register 
for this course, students must submit a written plan of study approved by a faculty 
adviser to the DUS no later than the end of registration period in the term in which Sociology         451
the senior essay is to be written. Non-intensive majors are not eligible to graduate with 
Distinction in the Major.
For the intensive major The intensive major gives students an opportunity to 
undertake a yearlong program of original research resulting in a contribution to 
sociological knowledge. The yearlong project requires substantial independent research 
and knowledge of a sociological sub-ﬁeld. Students use research methods such as data 
gathering through participant observation, in-depth interviewing, administration of 
small-scale surveys, or secondary analysis of existing data. They may present ﬁndings 
in a variety of forms, from ethnographic narratives to analytical statistics. Students 
select primary and secondary advisers from the faculty. Students in the intensive 
major enroll in SOCY 4200, 4201 during their senior year. The colloquium provides 
a forum for discussing the research process and for presenting students ’ research at 
various stages. Intensive majors are eligible to graduate with Distinction in the Major 
if they meet the grade standards for Distinction and submit a senior essay written in 
SOCY 4200, 4201. See The Undergraduate Curriculum, Honors.
Advising
All students interested in the Sociology major should meet with the DUS no later than 
the beginning of the junior year to elect a program of study. Qualiﬁed students may 
petition to enroll in graduate courses, with permission of the instructor and the director 
of graduate studies. A list of graduate courses and descriptions is available from the 
DUS.
Admission to the intensive major Candidates for the intensive major should indicate 
interest to the DUS by registration period in the spring for the fall term of their senior 
year. The intensive major is especially recommended for students considering graduate 
school or social research. The DUS and the senior essay adviser serve as advisers to 
seniors in the intensive major.
Study Abroad
Students planning to study abroad in their junior year are strongly encouraged to begin 
meeting speciﬁc requirements in their sophomore year. They should also discuss the 
options for their course of study with the DUS before ﬁnalizing their plans.
SUMMARY OF MAJOR REQUIREMENTS
Prerequisite None
Number of courses 13 term courses (incl senior req) for standard major and all 
concentrations
Distribution of courses Standard major—at least 1, but no more than 2 intro 
courses, SOCY 2001, 2002, 2100, and a course in sociological methods;  Economy 
& Society concentration—SOCY 2001 or 2002, SOCY 2100, 1 intermed or adv course 
in microeconomics, 1 sociological methods course, 2 intermed or adv courses on 
inequality or economic sociology; Health & Society concentration—SOCY 1600 or 1601, 
SOCY 2001 or 2002, SOCY 2100, 1 sociological methods course, 2 intermed or adv 
seminars, relevant to concentration; Data and Society concentration—SOCY 2001
or 2002, SOCY 2100, 1 intro stat course, 1 intermed or adv stat course, 2 additional 
methods courses, 1 indep study; Inequality, Race, and Society concentration —SOCY 1700, 
SOCY 2001 or 2002, SOCY 2100, 1 sociological methods course, 5 courses related to race 452            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
or inequality; Student-designed concentration—SOCY 2001, 2002, 2100, and a course in 
sociological methods, 1 intermed or adv sociology course
Substitution permitted Economy & Society, Data & Society, and Student-Designed 
concentr
ations—up to 4 courses from other depts, with DUS approval; Health & Society 
concentration—up to 5 courses from other depts with DUS approval; Inequality, Race, 
and Society concentration—up to 2 courses from other depts with DUS approval
Senior requirement Standard major and all concentrations—1 addtl 3000-level 
Sociology sem and one-term senior essay SOCY 4100; 
Intensive major—two-term 
senior essay (SOCY 4200, 4201)
FACULTY OF THE DEPARTMENT OF SOCIOLOGY
Professors/uni2002Julia Adams, Jeﬀrey Alexander, Elijah Anderson, †James Baron, Scott 
B
oorman, Nicholas Christakis, †Paul Cleary, Philip Gorski, Grace Kao, †Marissa King, 
†Peter Salovey, †Vicki Schultz, Philip Smith
Associate Professors/uni2002 Rene Almeling, †Monica Bell, Emily Erikson, †Justin Farrell, 
†Issa Kohler-Hausmann, Jonathan Wyrtzen
Assistant Professors/uni2002†Julie DiBenigno, Daniel Karell, †Balázs Kovács, Alka Menon, 
Rourke O'Brien, Emma Zang
†A joint appointment with primary a ﬃliation in another department or school.