South Asian Studies         453
South Asian Studies
Director of undergraduate studies: Jane Lynch (jane.lynch@yale.edu ),
south.asia@yale.edu
The program in South Asian Studies combines the requirements of a discipline-based 
ﬁrst major with signiﬁcant coursework in South Asian Studies. South Asian Studies 
can be taken only as a second major. The major is intended to provide students with 
a broad understanding of the history, culture, and languages of South Asia, as well as 
the region's current social, political, and economic conditions. Work in a discipline-
based major coupled with a focus on South Asia prepares students for graduate study, 
employment in nongovernmental organizations, or business and professional careers in 
which an understanding of the region is essential.
Requirements of the Major
See Links to the attributes indicating courses approved for the major requirements 
(premodern South Asia).
In addition to fulﬁlling the requirements of the primary major, a student choosing 
South Asian Studies as a second major must complete seven term courses in South 
Asian Studies numbered 2000 or above. At least two of the seven courses must address 
premodern South Asia, and at least two should be seminars. Students may petition the 
director of undergraduate studies (DUS) to include one relevant course from another 
department or program; approval may require additional coursework on South Asian 
topics. Students must also complete the senior requirement and meet the major ’s 
language requirement.
Language requirement/uni2002 One South Asian language must be studied at the advanced 
level (L5). Yale oﬀers L5 instruction in Hindi and Sanskrit. Students may request 
the substitution of another appropriate language (e.g., Persian or Arabic) for the 
core language requirement, and they are encouraged to pursue intensive language 
study through courses or work abroad. For South Asian languages beyond Hindi and 
Sanskrit, proﬁciency can be demonstrated through testing. Please contact the DUS 
if this is the route you would like to take. Students who fulﬁll the major requirement 
through the successful completion of an L5 language exam must take an additional term 
course for a total of eight term courses. While the exploration of a second language is 
encouraged, an elective approved by the DUS will fulﬁll the requirement.
Credit/D/Fail/uni2002No more than one course taken Credit/D/Fail may count toward the 
requirements of the major.
Outside credit/uni2002 Courses taken at another institution or during an approved summer or 
term-time study abroad program may count toward the major requirements with DUS 
approval.
Senior Requirement 
Students are held to the senior requirements that were in place when they declared 
their major./uni2002However, with approval from the director of undergraduate studies 
(DUS), the following requirements, updated for the academic year 2024 –2025, may be 
fulﬁlled by students who declared the major in a prior term.454            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
The senior requirement may be fulﬁlled by the completion of a seminar that culminates 
in a senior essay. Alternatively, the requirement may be fulﬁlled by completion of a 
one-credit, one-term senior essay undertaken in consultation with a faculty advisor in 
SAST 4910. The senior essay can be written in either the fall or spring of the student's 
senior year. The senior essay should be a substantial paper with a maximum length of 
8,000–10,000 words. The use of primary materials in the languages of the region is 
encouraged in senior essay projects.
The DUS must approve senior requirement plans early in the student’s senior year.
Advising
The South Asian Studies major permits students to choose courses from a wide range 
of disciplines. Individual programs should have a balance between courses in the 
humanities and those in the social sciences. The proposed course of study must be 
approved each term by the DUS. Students should also identify an adviser from the 
South Asian Studies faculty in their area of specialization as early as possible.
Two majors/uni2002Permission to complete two majors must be secured from the Committee 
on Honors and Academic Standing. Application forms are available from the residential 
college deans and must be submitted prior to the student’s ﬁnal term.
Courses in the Graduate School/uni2002Graduate courses in South Asian Studies are open to 
qualiﬁed undergraduates. Course descriptions appear in the Graduate School online 
bulletin and are also available in the South Asian Studies program oﬃ ce. Permission of 
the instructor and of the director of graduate studies is required.
Study Abroad 
Up to three course credits from approved study abroad programs may be applied 
toward the requirements of the major, with permission of the DUS.
SUMMARY OF MAJOR REQUIREMENTS
Prerequisites/uni2002None
Number of courses/uni20027 term courses (not incl senior req or lang req)
Distribution of courses/uni20027 courses in South Asian Studies numbered 2000 or above, 2 in 
premodern, 2 seminars
Substitution permitted/uni2002One relevant course in another dept, and/or up to 3 study 
abroad credits with DUS permission
Language requirement/uni2002 South Asian lang through L5 level
Senior requirement/uni2002 Senior essay in seminar, or research project in SAST 4910
Certiﬁcates of Advanced Language Study
The Department of South Asian Studies oﬀers a Certiﬁcate of Advanced Language 
Study in Hindi and Sanskrit. A certiﬁcate adviser, typically the director of 
undergraduate studies (DUS), advises students on the certiﬁcation process. The 
Certiﬁcate of Advanced Language Study, once certiﬁed through Degree Audit, is listed 
on the student’s transcript.South Asian Studies         455
Requirements for the Hindi certiﬁcate
Students seeking to earn the certiﬁcate are required to take four courses beyond the L4 
level in their chosen language, at least two of which must be Yale courses designated as 
L5. All courses must be taken for a letter grade, and students must achieve a grade of B 
or above. With the approval of the adviser, one advanced non-L5 Yale course, conducted 
in the target language, such as an independent study course (graded pass/fail), a 
graduate seminar, or an advanced seminar may count toward certiﬁcation requirements.
The certiﬁcate adviser may allow one “language across the curriculum” (LxC) course 
taught in English to count toward the certiﬁcation requirements provided the course 
includes at minimum a weekly discussion section conducted entirely in 
the target language. The discussion section must enroll a minimum of three students 
and the course must be designated as LxC in the course description.
The certiﬁcate adviser may also approve the substitution of up to two credits earned 
during study abroad and taught in the target language to count toward the certiﬁcate 
requirements. If the adviser approves courses taken outside of Yale for inclusion in the 
certiﬁcate requirements, students must take the necessary steps to ensure that those 
courses appear on their transcripts.
Requirements for the sanskrit certiﬁcate
Students seeking to earn the certiﬁcate are required to take four courses beyond the L3 
level in their chosen language, at least two of which must be Yale courses designated as 
L5. For the remaining two courses, one must be designated as L5 or L4 and one may be
SKRT 5570, a directed reading course, or a course closely related in Old or Middle Indic 
language, such as Vedic or Pali, or a seminar in Sanskrit literature with the readings in 
English. All courses must be taken for a letter grade, and students must achieve a grade 
of B or above.
Credit/D/Fail/uni2002No courses taken Credit/D/Fail may be counted toward the 
requirements of the certiﬁcate.
Declaration of Candidacy
Students must declare their intention to earn a Certiﬁcate on the Declare Major, 
Concentration within the Major, Certiﬁcate page on Yale Hub, as early as possible, but 
at the very latest, by the 15th of January or September in their last semester at 
Yale. Once declared, Degree Audit tracks students' progress toward completion 
of the certiﬁcate.
FACULTY ASSOCIATED WITH THE PROGRAM OF SOUTH ASIAN STUDIES
Professors/uni2002Sunil Amrith (History), Tim Barringer (History of Art), Veneeta Dayal 
(Linguistics ), Mayur Desai (School of Public Health, Michael Dove (Anthropology, 
School of the Environment), David Engerman (History, Global Aﬀairs), Robert Jensen 
(Economics ), Mushﬁq Mobarak (Economics, School of Management), Bhramar 
Mukherjee (School of Public Health), Kaivan Munshi (Economics ), Rohini Pande 
(Economics ), Kishwar Rizvi (History of Art), Kalyanakrishnan Sivaramakrishnan 
(Anthropology, School of the Environment), Kalindi Vora (Women’s, Gender, & Sexuality 
Studies, Ethnicity, Race, & Migration), Steven Wilkinson (Political Science)456            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
Associate Professors/uni2002Anthony Acciavatti (Architecture), Rohit De (History), Zareena 
Grewal (Ethnicity, Race, & Migration)
Assistant Professors/uni2002Supriya Gandhi (Religious Studies), Sonam Kachru ( Religious 
Studies), Jane Mikkelson (Humanities), Priyasha Mukhopadhyay (English), Ameera 
Nimjee (Music), Madiha Tahir (American Studies), Brian Wahl (School of Public Health)
Senior Lecturers/uni2002Carol Carpenter (Anthropology, School of the Environment), Shilarna 
Stokes (Theater, Dance, & Performance Studies)
Lecturers/uni2002Jane Lynch (Anthropology), Sushant Singh (South Asian Studies), Nafeesa 
Syeed (English, South Asian Studies)
Senior Lectors/uni2002Swapna Sharma (Hindi), Aleksandar Uskokov (Sanskrit)
Lector/uni2002Mansi Bajaj (Hindi), 