Southeast Asia Studies         457
Southeast Asia Studies
Chair: Erik Harms  (erik.harms@yale.edu ), 10 Sachem St., 436-4276; program 
manager: Ei Khin (ei.khin@yale.edu); language program director: Dinny Aletheiani
(dinny.aletheiani@yale.edu ); macmillan.yale.edu/southeast-asia
The Council on Southeast Asia Studies oﬀers an interdisciplinary program that brings 
together faculty and students sharing an interest in Southeast Asia and contributes to 
the curriculum with language courses, a weekly seminar series, periodic conferences, 
cultural events, and special lectures. Yale maintains extensive library and research 
collections  on Southeast Asia, including online archives of periodicals and newspapers 
from all parts of the region.
Yale does not oﬀer a degree in Southeast Asia studies, but majors in any department 
may consult with Council faculty regarding a senior essay on a Southeast Asian topic, 
and in certain circumstances students who have a special interest in the region may 
consider a Special Divisional Major. Students interested in pursuing ﬁeld research or 
language study in Southeast Asia may apply to the Council  for summer fellowship 
support.
Courses featuring Southeast Asian content are oﬀered each year within a variety of 
departments and programs, including Anthropology , Ethnicity, Race, and Migration 
(ER&M), Environmental Studies, History,  History of Art, Music, Philosophy, Political 
Science, and Sociology. A list of courses for the current year can be obtained through 
the Council oﬃce or the Southeast Asia Studies website.
Language instruction  at all levels is oﬀered in two Southeast Asian languages, 
Indonesian and Vietnamese. Other Southeast Asian languages may be available in 
any given year via video conference through the Yale Shared Course Initiative. Check 
the Southeast Asia Studies language studies web page  for updated information. The 
Council on Southeast Asia Studies supports language tables and independent study in 
other Southeast Asian languages through the Directed Independent Language Study 
program.
Certiﬁcate of advanced language study
The Department of Southeast Asian Studies oﬀers Certiﬁcates of Advanced Language 
Study in Vietnamese and Indonesian, which once certiﬁed, are listed on student 
transcripts.
Requirements for the Vietnamese certiﬁcate
Students seeking to earn the certiﬁcate are required to take four courses beyond the 
L4 level (VIET 1420 ), at least two of which must be Yale courses designated as L5 
(VIET 1500 , 1600, 4600). All courses must be taken for a letter grade, and students 
must achieve a grade of B or above. With the approval of the certiﬁcate adviser, up 
to two advanced non-L5 Yale course, conducted in the target language, such as an 
independent study course ( VIET 4700 or 4710 ) (graded Pass/Fail) or an advanced 
seminar may count toward certiﬁcation requirements. Only one independent study 
course with Pass/Fail will be counted toward the certiﬁcate requirement.458            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
The certiﬁcate adviser may also approve the substitution of up to two credits earned 
during study abroad and taught in the target language to count toward the certiﬁcate 
requirements. If the adviser approves courses taken outside of Yale for inclusion in the 
certiﬁcate requirements, students must take the necessary steps to ensure that those 
courses appear on their transcripts.
requirements for the Indonesian certiﬁcate
Students seeking to earn the certiﬁcate are required to take four courses beyond the L4 
level. At least two of the four courses must be Yale advanced language courses, such as 
INDN 1500, INDN 1600, INDN 1700, or INDN 1800. All courses must be taken for a 
letter grade, and students must achieve a grade of B or above. With the approval of the 
certiﬁcate adviser, up to one course, conducted in the target language, at the appropriate 
advanced level, such as an independent study course (INDN 4700 or INDN 4710), 
graded Pass/Fail or a graduate seminar (INDN 5700) may count toward certiﬁcation 
requirements.
The certiﬁcate adviser may also approve the substitution of up to two credits earned 
during study abroad and taught in the target language to count toward the certiﬁcate 
requirements. If the adviser approves courses taken outside of Yale for inclusion in the 
certiﬁcate requirements, students must take the necessary steps to ensure that those 
courses appear on their transcripts.
Credit/D/Fail /uni2002No courses taken Credit/D/Fail may be counted toward the 
requirements of the certiﬁcate.
Declaration of Candidacy
Students must declare their intention to earn a Certiﬁcate on the Declare Majo r, 
Concentration within the Majo r, Certiﬁcate page on Yale Hub, as early as possible, but 
at the very latest, by the 15th of January or September in their last semester at 
Yale. Once declared, Degree Audit tracks students’ progress toward completion 
of the ce
rtiﬁcate.
For more information, email the Southeast Asia Language Director 
at dinny.aletheiani@yale.edu
FACULTY ASSOCIATED WITH THE COUNCIL ON SOUTHEAST ASIA STUDIES
Professors/uni2002Sunil Amrith (History), Michael R. Dove (School of the Environment),  Erik 
Harms (Anthropology), Mimi Yiengpruksawan (History of Art)
Assistant Professors Alka Menon (Sociology), Nurfadzilah Yahaya (History)
Senior Lecturers/uni2002Carol Carpenter (School of the Environment, Anthropology), Amity 
Doolittle (School of the Environment)
Lecturer 
 Quan T. Tran (American Studies)
Curator Ruth Barnes (Art Gallery)
Senior Lector II/uni2002Quang Phu Van (Vietnamese)
Senior Lectors  Dinny Risri Aletheiani (Indonesian), Indriyo Sukmono (Indonesian)