Spanish         459
S
panish
Director of undergraduate studies:  Aurelie Vialette  (aurelie.vialette@yale.edu); 
language program director: Jorge Méndez-Seijas; span-port.yale.edu
The Department of Spanish and Portuguese provides instruction in the languages, 
literatures, and cultures of the Hispanic and Luso-Brazilian worlds. Courses in 
Portuguese and the requirements of the major are described under Portuguese ; the 
names of faculty teaching Portuguese courses are included in the faculty roster.
The major in Spanish is a liberal arts major that oﬀers a wide range of courses in 
the language, literatures, and cultures of the twenty Spanish-speaking countries in 
Europe, Latin America, and the Caribbean. Today, Spanish is the second language of 
the United States, one of the three most widely spoken languages in the world, and one 
of the ﬁve diplomatic languages of the United Nations. The program in Spanish oﬀers 
students the opportunity to acquire thorough linguistic proﬁciency as well as in-depth 
knowledge of both cultural and literary topics. The major explores literature, history, 
philosophy, art, and cultural studies, and provides excellent preparation for careers in 
law, diplomacy, medicine, business, the arts, academics, journalism, and education.
Course Numbering
Courses numbered SPAN 1100–1999 include beginning and intermediate language 
courses designed to help students develop ﬂuency in understanding, speaking, reading, 
and writing Spanish. Courses numbered SPAN 2200–2999 seek to provide students 
with a broad but solid introduction to the ﬁelds of Hispanic literatures and cultures 
while strengthening their linguistic competence. Courses numbered 3000–4999 allow 
students to perfect their linguistic and critical skills through study of a speciﬁc problem 
or issue, e.g., a literary genre, a type of literary or cultural representation, or a speciﬁc 
writer or text. Students desiring more information about either language or literature 
oﬀerings should consult the director of undergraduate studies (DUS).
Prerequisite
Prerequisite to the major is SPAN 1400, SPAN 1450, SPAN 1500, or the equivalent 
through advanced placement or study abroad. Equivalent preparation to SPAN 1400, 
SPAN 1450, SPAN 1500, or may be demonstrated by the test scores indicated below 
under “Language Courses and Placement Procedures.”
Language courses and Placement Procedures
Students with no previous formal or informal Spanish study ordinarily enroll 
in SPAN 1100. Students who take SPAN 1100 are strongly encouraged to continue 
with SPAN 1200 in the following term. Students wishing to take intensive beginning 
Spanish may, with the instructor's permission, enroll in SPAN 1250, which covers the 
same material as SPAN 1100 and SPAN 1200, but in one term. SPAN 1500 is designed 
for heritage speakers and is available only to them. Admission to SPAN 1500 is based 
on the results of the departmental placement examination; interested students should 
contact the instructor.
All students, including native speakers, who have previously studied Spanish formally 
or informally must take the departmental placement examination to enroll in a Spanish 
course. The only exception to this rule is made for students who have demonstrated 460            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
advanced ability in the language by (1) receiving a score of 5 on either of the Spanish 
Advanced Placement tests; (2) receiving a score of 6 or 7 on the Advanced-Level 
International Baccalaureate examination; or (3) attaining a proﬁciency level of C1 in the 
Common European Framework of Reference for Languages. These students may enroll 
directly in any L5 course.
Information about the departmental placement examination and registration 
procedures for Spanish L1–L4 language courses is available on the department website.
Requirements of the Major
Students are held to the requirements that were in place when they declared their 
major. However, with approval from the DUS, the following requirements, updated 
for the academic year 2024–2025, may be fulﬁlled by students who declared the major 
in a prior term.
See the Link to the attribute indicating courses taught in Spanish.
Beyond the prerequisite, ten term courses are required. SPAN 2200 is a required 
introductory course. Additionally, two courses numbered SPAN 2200 –2999 are 
required, as are three courses numbered SPAN 3000 or higher. SPAN 4900, The Senior 
Project, is one of the ten required courses. The remaining three elective courses must 
be numbered SPAN 2000 or higher, or be a ﬁrst-year seminar taught in Spanish. 
A maximum of one course taught in a language other than Spanish may also count 
toward the major requirements, with the approval of the DUS.
Intensive major/uni2002Students in the intensive major fulﬁll the requirements for the 
standard major, and take two additional courses numbered SPAN 3000 or higher.
Credit/D/Fail /uni2002No course taken Credit/D/Fail may be applied toward the requirements 
of the major.
Outside credit/uni2002Courses taken at another institution or during an approved summer or 
term-time study abroad program may count toward the major requirements with DUS 
approval.
Senior Requirement
Seniors complete the senior requirement, an essay or its equivalent in another medium, 
in SPAN 4900 in the spring of their senior year under the individual direction of a 
faculty adviser. Students expecting to complete their degree requirements in December 
complete the senior requirement in SPAN 4900 in the fall of their senior year. 
Deadlines and guidelines for the senior requirement can be found on the Spanish and 
Portuguese department website.
Advising
Two majors/uni2002Students electing Spanish as one of two majors should consult the DUS 
about a specialized course of stud
y.
Courses in the Graduate School/uni2002Juniors and seniors majoring in Spanish may, with 
permission of the instructor and the director of graduate studies, enroll in graduate 
courses in Spanish.Spanish         461
Study Abroad
Students at the intermediate level of language study are encouraged to apply to the 
eight-week summer language courses oﬀered by Yale Summer Session in New Haven 
and Bilbao, Spain, or in Quito, Ecuador. Advanced students may apply for the ﬁve-
week Yale Summer Session courses oﬀered in Valencia, Spain, and in Quito, Ecuador. 
More information about these programs is available on the Yale Summer Session 
w
ebsite. For information about the Year or Term Abroad program, see Academic 
Regulations, section K, Special Academic Programs. Students who wish to count 
courses take
n abroad toward the major should consult with the DUS before going 
abroad.
SUMMARY OF MAJOR REQUIREMENTS
Prerequisite 1 course from SPAN 1400, 1450, 1500, or equivalent
Number of courses
 10 term courses (including senior requirement)
Speciﬁc course required/uni2002SPAN 2200
Distribution of courses 2 courses numbered SPAN 2200-2999, 3 courses numbered 
SPAN 3000 or higher; 3 electives numbered SPAN 2000 or higher or a ﬁrst-year 
seminar taught in Spanish, with a max of one course taught in a language other than 
Spanish, with DUS approval
Senior requirement SPAN 4900
Intensive major 2 addtl courses numbered SPAN 3000 or higher, totaling 12 term 
courses
Certiﬁcate of Advanced Language Study
The Department of Spanish and Portuguese oﬀers a Certiﬁcate of Advanced Language 
Study in Spanish. A certiﬁcate adviser, typically the director of undergraduate studies 
(DUS), advises students on the certiﬁcation process. The Certiﬁcate of Advanced 
Language Study, once certiﬁed, is listed on the student’s transcript. 
Requirements
Students seeking to earn the certiﬁcate are required to take four courses, all beyond the 
L4 level in their chosen language, at least two of which must be Yale courses designated 
as L5, and at least one of which must be a Yale 3000-level advanced undergraduate 
lecture or seminar. All courses must be taken for a letter grade, and students must 
achieve a grade of B or above. 
Yale study abroad courses designated as L5 may count toward the certiﬁcate. The 
certiﬁcate adviser may also approve the substitution of one credit earned as part of a 
non-Yale study abroad program and taught in the target language to count toward the 
certiﬁcate requirements. If the adviser approves a non-Yale course for inclusion in the 
certiﬁcate requirements, students must take the necessary steps to ensure that those 
courses appear on their transcripts.
Credit/D/Fail/uni2002No courses taken Credit/D/Fail may be counted toward the 
requirements of the certiﬁcate.462            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
Declaration of Candidacy
Students must declare their intention to earn a Certiﬁcate on the Declare Major, 
Concentration within the Major, Certiﬁcate page on Yale Hub, as early as possible, but 
at the very latest, by the 15th of January or September in their last semester at 
Yale. Once declared, Degree Audit tracks students' progress toward completion 
of the certiﬁcate.
FACULTY OF THE DEPARTMENT OF SPANISH AND PORTUGUESE
Professors/uni2002
Santiago Acosta, Aníbal González-Pérez, K. David Jackson, Nicholas R. 
Jones, Olivia Lott, Noël Valis, Jesús R. Velasco, Aurélie Vialette, Lisa Voigt.
Senior Lectors II/uni2002Jorge Méndez-Seijas.
Senior Lectors I/uni2002María Pilar Asensio-Manrique, Carolina Baffi, Mercedes Carreras, 
Sebastián Díaz, María de la Paz García, María José Gutiérrez Barajas, Rosamaría 
León, Luna Nájera, Juliana Ramos-Ruano, Lissette Reymundi, Noelia Sánchez-
Walker, Lourdes Sabé-Colom, Giseli Tordin, María M. Vázquez.
Lectors/uni2002Mariana Centanin Bertho, Igor de Souza, Kevin Ennis, Sarah Glenski, 
Mayte López, Ian Russell.
Senior Lecturer II/uni2002Alex Gil.