Special Divisional Majors         463
Special Divisional Majors
Director of undergraduate studies: Sarah Mahurin (sarah.mahurin@yale.edu), Dean’s 
Oﬃce TD, 432-0754
A Special Divisional Major a ﬀords an alternative for students whose academic interests 
cannot be met by an existing departmental or special major. Students may, with the 
approval of the Committee on Honors and Academic Standing, design majors of their 
own in consultation with members of the faculty and in accordance with the procedures 
outlined below.
Special Divisional Majors diﬀer so widely in content that there is no uniform format, 
but many of these majors draw from several departments to focus on a particular 
culture, period, or problem (e.g., French studies, medieval studies, urban studies). 
Students interested in pursuing a Special Divisional Major in Early Modern studies 
should visit the Early Modern Studies program website. A Special Divisional Major may 
not be oﬀe
red as one of two majors.
Students considering a Special Divisional Major should be aware of its particular 
demands and risks. They face the challenges of interdisciplinary work and must grapple 
with the conceptual processes of disparate disciplines. They must establish criteria for 
selecting courses and organize their courses in order to obtain an adequate base in the 
ﬁelds necessary for advanced work on a speciﬁc topic.
Students in a Special Divisional Major may get little help in designing their programs. 
Because they are in separate, independent programs, they forfeit some of the 
services normally provided as part of a departmental or special major. They must, 
for example, ﬁnd their own advisers. They need to ask the help of faculty members 
already committed to other departments and programs who may not share their 
interdisciplinary interests. They must acquire the necessary background and sustain 
their interest without the help of any special seminar. They may lose other advantages 
of departmental aﬃliation, such as priority for acceptance in restricted-enrollment 
courses, opportunities to meet students and faculty members with similar interests, 
and participation in a program easily understood by graduate schools and others. Their 
transcripts will carry only the notation “Special Divisional Major,”  without specifying 
the student
’s ﬁeld of concentration.
Before applying for a Special Divisional Major, students are urged to consult the 
directors of undergraduate studies (DUSs) in their ﬁelds of major interest, who can 
advise them whether a Special Divisional Major is necessary. Special interests can 
usually be accommodated within an existing major.
Prerequisites
Because of the variety of programs, there are no uniform prerequisites. All students 
must satisfy their prospective advisers and the Committee that they have obtained 
adequate preparation for the advanced courses and senior projects they propose.
Requirements of the Major 
The major ordinarily comprises at least twelve advanced term courses and a senior 
project. Advanced courses include all but prerequisites for majors, beginning language 
courses, and comparable courses. When appropriate, approval is granted for graduate 464            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
courses, tutorials, and Residential College Seminars. No distinction is made in the 
Special Divisional Major between standard and intensive majors.
The DUS in the Special Divisional Major presents proposals for the major to the 
Committee on Honors and Academic Standing. General problems connected with a 
student’s program may be discussed with the DUS. Students who revise their original 
proposal or change faculty advisers must obtain the Committee’s approval. The 
Committee advises the Yale College Faculty whether or not the student has completed 
a major and may not be able to recommend students for the degree who have changed 
their programs without proper consultation.
Credit/D/Fail/uni2002Courses taken Credit/D/Fail may not be counted toward the major.
Outside credit Courses taken at another institution or during an approved summer or 
term-time study abroad program may count toward the major requirements with DUS 
approval. 
Senior Requirement
No later than midterm of their seventh term of enrollment, and after consultation with 
their faculty advisers, students provide the Committee with an outline of their plans 
for the senior project. There are several options: a written or oral examination, a senior 
essay or project, or, in some circumstances, a graduate course or a tutorial. A senior 
essay usually o ﬀers the most eﬀective means of integrating material from more than one 
discipline, and stude
nts in a Special Divisional Major typically request one course credit 
in each term of the senior year in SPEC 4910, SPEC 4920, The Senior Project.
Students who oﬀ er a yearlong senior project must, in order to continue the course 
into the second term, provide their advisers with substantial written evidence of 
their progress (i.e., a draft or detailed outline) by the end of their seventh term. The 
project must be completed no later than two weeks before the last day of classes in the 
student’s eighth term of enrollment. At least two faculty members evaluate it.
Advising and Application to the Major
Advisers/uni2002 Candidates must arrange for faculty advisers before applying. DUSs or 
department chairs can usually suggest advisers. The Committee expects each student 
to obtain a primary adviser from the department that forms the principal component 
of the major, as well as one or more adjunct advisers from other ﬁelds. The primary 
adviser must be a regular member of the Yale College faculty. Members of the faculties 
of other schools of the University and visiting faculty members may serve as adjunct 
advisers.
Both advisers and students assume special responsibilities when designing and 
completing a major that falls outside existing programs. The special nature of the 
program and the student’s loss of departmental affiliation make it particularly 
important for the faculty adviser to meet regularly with the student to help plan the 
program and to supervise its completion, including the senior project.
The primary adviser assumes chief responsibility for reporting the student ’s progress to 
the Committee and for assigning a grade to the senior project. The primary adviser also 
consults the student’ s other advisers and works with them in directing, evaluating, and 
grading the senior project.Special Divisional Majors         465
Application/uni2002Students considering a Special Divisional Major are invited to talk with 
DUSs and with their residential college deans at any stage in their planning. Candidates 
may apply for admission as early as their fourth term of enrollment, but must have 
done so no later than one month after their seventh term of enrollment begins. The 
Committee’s experience suggests that the last term of the sophomore or the ﬁrst term 
of the junior year is the best time to apply.
Lucidity, coherence, and completeness in an application are of primary importance to a 
student’s candidacy, since they are indications of a thoughtfully prepared program of 
study and of the qualities of eagerness and initiative essential to a successful Special 
Divisional Major. The Committee expects that applicants will have worked in close 
collaboration with the director of undergraduate studies (DUS) of the Special 
Divisional Major in developing their proposals, and it will normally view failure to do 
so as grounds for rejection of the application.
Application forms are available at the Timothy Dwight College Dean’s Office. They are 
submitted, along with letters of support from faculty advisers, to the Committee on 
Honors and Academic Standing, in care of the Timothy Dwight College Dean ’
s Office. 
The Committee meets to consider proposals several times a year. All students in good 
standing are eligible, although the Committee must be satisﬁed that candidates have 
particular aptitude and preparation for the work they propose.
In approving or rejecting proposals for a Special Divisional Major, the Committee 
looks principally at the quality of the student's planning. What are the objectives of 
the program? What are the principles for selecting courses and organizing material? Is 
the program comparable in breadth and depth to other majors in Yale College? What 
provisions have been made to guide and evaluate the student's progress? What sort 
of senior project would focus and integrate the program? Finally, are the objectives 
of the program best served by a Special Divisional Major? The Committee will not 
approve a major if the student can accomplish the desired aims in an existing major; the 
Committee may consult DUSs and other faculty members to judge whether or not this 
is the case.
SUMMARY OF MAJOR REQUIREMENTS
Prerequisite/uni2002Approval of 2 or more faculty advisers and Committee on Honors and 
Academic Standing
Number of courses/uni200213 term courses (incl one-term senior essay) or 14 term courses 
(incl two-term senior essay)
Distribution of courses/uni2002Advanced courses in 2 or more appropriate depts; grad 
courses, college sems, or tutorials with DUS permission
Senior requirement/uni2002Senior essay or project (SPEC 4910 and/or SPEC 4920), or, with 
DUS permission, written or oral exam, grad course, or tutorial