472            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
Theater, Dance, and Performance Studies
Director of undergraduate studies: Hal Brooks (hal.brooks@yale.edu), Rm. 102C, 220 
York St., 432-1310; tdps.yale.edu
The mission of the program in Theater, Dance, and Performance Studies (TDPS) 
is to cultivate adventurous artists and scholars with a serious commitment to craft 
and extensive understanding of the contexts in which cultural productions emerge. 
Introductory, term, and capstone courses reiterate the core learning objectives of the 
program: collaboration, craft, the integration of practice and theory, interdisciplinarity, 
and new work development.
Students are encouraged to gain experience in an array of disciplines including theater, 
dance, performance studies, musical theater, intermedia arts, and design. As research 
in theater, dance, and performance studies is interdisciplinary in scope and global in 
perspective, students are expected to take courses in cognate disciplines such as history, 
philosophy, anthropology, political science, ﬁlm, art, and literature. The major provides 
a solid education in the humanities, as well as preparation for graduate studies or for 
careers in theater, dance, and the performing arts.
Faculty members are aﬃliated with a range of departments; their diverse expertise 
lends breadth and depth to course oﬀerings and enables students to devise a course of 
study that reﬂects their developing interests. Faculty aﬃliated with the David Geﬀen 
School of Drama at Yale (DGSD) regularly teach Theater, Dance, and Performance 
Studies (TDPS) courses, and students have ample opportunities to interact with 
graduate students in the various departments of DGSD. Courses and events across 
the TDPS curriculum provide opportunities for students to attend performances by 
professional companies and artists and learn from discussions, workshops, and lectures 
oﬀered by prominent guest artists and scholars.
Special features of the program are its production seminars, independent studies, 
research- and writing-based senior theses, and production-based senior projects.
Production seminars, taken with the permission of the instructor, oﬀer immersive, 
semester-long performance research and development, culminating in public 
presentations and productions. Independent studies, taken under the supervision of a 
faculty adviser, give students the freedom to pursue individual and group-generated 
projects and to investigate areas of scholarship not oﬀered elsewhere in the curriculum. 
Independent study courses are typically open only to juniors and seniors in the 
major. Production-based senior projects as well as research- and writing-based senior 
theses are described in the Senior Requirements section.
In addition to the theater, dance, and performance studies curricula, three programs are 
integrated into the mission of the major.
The Dance Studies curriculum features studio and seminar courses that cover the 
practice, history, and theory of diverse dance forms and movement phenomena. 
Students are guided in physical techniques and movement research across a 
wide range of temporal, geographic, and cultural sites, linking dance to the other 
arts, the humanities, sciences, and social sciences, and they explore the ﬂuid and Theater, Dance, and Performance Studies         473
fraught relationship between movement and language. Contact: Emily Coates
(emily.coates@yale.edu), Director of Dance.
The Shen Curriculum for Musical Theater examines American Musical Theater as a 
unique art form, one informed and inﬂuenced by changing cultural and socio-economic 
conditions as well as musical tastes and styles. Shen courses combine a grounding in 
skill-based study with history, analysis, and theory. The faculty consists of scholars and 
working professionals, including composers, directors, lyricists, librettists, directors, 
and performers. Additionally, the Shen Curriculum supports a co-curricular program 
that includes the Fridays at Five series of master classes and voice lessons in musical 
theater technique. Contact: Daniel Egan  (dan.egan@yale.edu), Coordinator of the 
Shen Curriculum.
Computing and the Arts  is an interdepartmental major designed for students 
who wish to work at and across intersections between computing and theater, 
dance and/or performance studies. Through a mix of practical and theoretical 
exploration, students consider how the live body on stage is reconﬁgured, 
reimagined, and reiﬁed through technological intervention. Contact: Elise Morrison
(elise.morrison@yale.edu), aﬃliated faculty in Computing and the Arts.
The Theater, Dance, and Performing Studies department also supports three 
substantial co-curricular initiatives: the Performance Studies working group, the Yale 
Playwrights Festival, and the Yale Dance Lab.
Prerequisites
The prerequisites for the major are TDPS 1000  and TDPS 1001 .
Requirements of the Major
See Links to the attributes indicating courses approved for Theater, Dance, and 
Performance Studies major requirements./uni2002
The major consists of ten term courses beyond the introductory prerequisites. Of the 
ten required term courses, students must take two courses in each of four domains: 
Artistic Practice, Interarts, Histories, and Performance Theory, one related elective 
and one senior requirement course. Most courses are listed in more than one domain, 
though they may count for only one domain requirement for a given student. Students 
may take term courses concurrently with prerequisite courses.
Artistic Practice Domain (YC TDPS: Artistic Practice) This domain encompasses 
techniques and compositional strategies in theater, dance, musical theater, design, 
and intermedia performance. Practice-based courses emphasize the knowledge of 
doing, moving, creating, devising, composing, designing, and craft. Courses move 
through existing aesthetic practices and histories as a means of cultivating individual 
and collective expression and new creation. Skills: heightened attention to energy, time, 
and space; the artist’s self-knowledge and body; ﬂuency synthesizing movement and 
language in compositions; and innovative approaches to researching history and culture 
through performance.
Interarts Domain (YC TDPS: Interarts) This domain invites students to experience 
art-making between disciplines and within interdisciplinary forms. Courses in this 
area may draw connections and inspiration between established artistic disciplines, 
such as theater and dance, or reach beyond the program, putting the performing 474            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
arts in conversation with ideas and approaches in diverse ﬁelds including ﬁlm, 
visual art, new media, psychology, and science. Ideally, students use the Interarts 
requirement to explore disciplinary practices outside of their main track and comfort 
zone, expanding the boundaries of methods, resources, and questioning that feed into 
their creative practice. Skills: collaboration; interdisciplinary research and creation; and 
the integration of methods and systems of knowledge drawn from diverse ﬁelds.
Histories Domain (YC TDPS: Histories) This domain includes courses in which the 
scope of study is deﬁned by period, genre, and/or geographic region, in which students 
research past practices, texts, performances, and cultures. Courses in Histories may 
also ask students to employ performance-based research methods to analyze, discover, 
reconstruct, or intervene in diverse global, local, and personal historical narratives. 
Skills: engaging with material from disparate time periods, geographies, and cultural 
forms; methods of archival research and oral histories; and reenacting historical 
performance and adaptation in new forms.
Performance Theory Domain (YC TDPS: Performance Theory) Courses in this 
domain introduce students to foundational theories of performativity and theatricality 
as applied to a range of cultural contexts and global histories. Theory courses bring 
together intersecting literatures of feminist and queer theory, linguistic theory, critical 
race studies, dance studies, and anthropology that together form the theories and 
methods of Performance Studies and Dance Studies as ﬁelds of study and practice. 
These courses may also invite students to respond to and use theoretical concepts in 
the creation of live art. Skills: facility with performance studies analysis; application 
of theory to dramatic texts and embodied practices; and investigating dynamic 
relationship between archives and repertoires.
Credit/D/Fail/uni2002 No course taken Credit/D/Fail may be applied toward the requirements 
of the major.
Courses graded P/F   No course taken Pass/Fail may be applied toward the 
requirements of the major.
Outside credit Courses taken at another institution or during an approved summer or 
te
rm-time study abroad program may count toward the major requirements with DUS 
approval. 
Senior Requirements 
Majors are held to the senior requirements that were in place when they declared 
their major. However, with approval from the director of undergraduate studies 
(DUS), the following senior requirement options, updated for the academic year 2024 –
2025, may be fulﬁlled by students who declared the major in a prior term.
Majors satisfy the senior requirement in one of ﬁve main ways: a substantial senior 
essay written in an upper-level seminar, a production seminar, or a senior independent 
study (TDPS 4900, TDPS 4901, or TDPS 4902).
With the approval of the DUS, a student may take a one-term, upper-level seminar as 
a senior seminar. In such cases, the expectations for the ﬁnal thesis will be substantially 
higher than for other students not taking the class as a senior seminar. Participation and Theater, Dance, and Performance Studies         475
enrollment in a production seminar may similarly fulﬁll the senior requirement, and 
will similarly require a more extensive ﬁnal paper than other students in the course.
Under the supervision of a faculty adviser, a student may undertake a one-term 
senior project in either the fall or spring semester by enrolling in TDPS 4901 which 
culminates in a production as part of the curricular production season. Depending 
upon an individual student’s preparation, coursework, and research objectives, a 
senior enrolled in TDPS 4901 may direct, design, or devise a theatrical production, 
create a documentary ﬁlm or digital media production, perform a role, choreograph 
a dance piece, or design an original work of performance art. Seniors engaging in 
production-based senior projects (TDPS 4901) must complete an essay (15 –25 pages in 
length). For a production-based project to be considered for inclusion in the TDPS 
curricular season, a proposer must have previously served as a producer of a TDPS 
curricular production (or partner with someone who has) and must follow the proposal 
guidelines that are promulgated throughout their junior year.
Under the supervision of a faculty adviser, a student may undertake a one-term senior 
research project in either the fall or spring semester by enrolling in TDPS 4902 which 
culminates in a full-length essay (35–50 pages in length), a writing portfolio or other 
work of pe
rformance-based writing (plays, screenplays, etc.). In TDPS 4902 students' 
research falls into one of these three areas: 1) Literature, History, Theory, and Criticism 
2) Writing Performance-based Art and Media, and 3) Performance Research, Analysis 
and Design. Seniors pursuing this thesis path are permitted to use their curricular thesis 
research to support their extracurricular work in a production that is organized and 
funded through the Creative and Performing Arts process or other approved entities. 
Similar to TDPS 4901, students enrolling in TDPS 4902 must follow the proposal 
guidelines that are promulgated throughout their junior year.
To ensure that their coursework aligns with their goals, students should begin 
discussing senior project ideas and plans with the DUS at the start of their junior year. 
Mandatory senior project orientation meetings for all juniors are held once in the fall 
and twice during the spring semester, with research and production proposals due the 
Friday before spring recess.
Advising
TDPS majors in their junior and senior years are required to meet with the DUS at the 
beginning of each of their ﬁnal four terms. Students in their ﬁrst and second years of 
study who may be interested in the TDPS major are encouraged to meet with the DUS 
once a semester to discuss goals, learn about opportunities, and ask questions.
Courses REQUIRING INSTRUCTOR PERMISSION
With the exception of TDPS 1000 and TDPS 1001, many courses in Theater, Dance, 
and Performance Studies are limited enrollment courses that may require a short 
statement of interest, writing sample, or audition in order to obtain instructor 
permission to register. When there are more applicants for a course than can be 
admitted, priority is given to juniors and seniors who have declared a major in Theater, 
Dance, and Performance Studies or ﬁrst- and second-year students who have completed 
one or both prerequisite courses (TDPS 1000 and TDPS 1001). Undergraduate 
students in all years of study and all majors are encouraged to apply to courses in 
Theater, Dance, and Performance Studies.476            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
Courses IN THE DAVID GEFFEN SCHOOL OF DRAMA AT YALE
Majors in Theater, Dance, and Performance Studies are eligible to take DGSD courses 
in design, theory, dramaturgy, and theater management, with permission of the 
instructor, the DUS, the DGSD Registrar, using the Cross-School Course Registration 
Process for the David Geﬀen School of Drama at Yale. Undergraduates may not, 
how
ever, enroll in acting or directing courses oﬀered by the David Geﬀ en School of 
Drama at Yale. Students enrolling in DGSD courses should note that a maximum of 
four term courses from the professional schools (of which DGSD is one) may be oﬀered 
toward the bachelor's degree. Students also should note that the academic calendars 
of DGSD and of Yale College diﬀer. The DGSD calendar should be consulted for 
scheduling
. A student interested in taking a course at the David Geﬀen School of Drama 
at Yale should begin by seeking the permission of the instructor and contacting their 
academic dean.
SUMMARY OF MAJOR REQUIREMENTS
Prerequisites/uni2002 TDPS 1000, TDPS 1001
Number of courses/uni200210 term courses beyond prereqs (incl senior req)
Distribution of courses/uni20022 courses in each of four domains: Artistic Practice, Interarts, 
Histories, Performance Theory; plus 1 related elective.
Senior requirement Senior seminar with substantial ﬁnal essay, production seminar, 
or senior independent study (TDPS 4900, 4901, or 4902)
FACUL
TY ASSOCIATED WITH THE PROGRAM OF THEATER AND 
PERFORMANCE STUDIES
Professors James Bundy (School of Drama, Theater, Dance, and Performance Studies), 
David Chambers (Adjunct) (Theater, Dance, and Performance Studies), *Toni Dorfman 
(Adjunct) (Theater, Dance, and Performance Studies), Branden Jacobs-Jenkins 
(
Practice) (Theater, Dance, and Performance Studies), Joan MacIntosh (Practice) (Theater, 
Dance, and Performance Studies, School of Drama), *Lawrence Manley (English), *Deb 
Margolin (Practice) (Theater, Dance, and Performance Studies), Donald Margulies
(Adjunct) (English, Theater
, Dance, and Performance Studies), *Charles Musser (Film & 
Media Studies, American Studies, Theater, Dance, and Performance Studies), Tavia Nyong'o 
(Theater, Dance, and Performance Studies, American Studies), *Marc Robinson (School of 
Drama, Theater, Dance, and Performance Studies, English), Alexandra Vazquez (Theater, 
Dance, and Performance Studies ), Shane Vogel ( African American Studies, English, Theater, 
Dance, and Performance Studies ), Gregory Wallace (Practice) (School of Drama, Theater, 
Dance, and Performance Studies)
Associate Professor/uni2002Emily Coates (Adjunct) (Theater, Dance, and Performance Studies, 
School of Drama )
Assistant Professors/uni2002 Elise Morrison (Theater, Dance, and Performance Studies), Amanda 
Reid (Theater, Dance, and Performance Studies)
Lecturers/uni2002Hal Brooks, Lacina Coulibaly, Daniel Egan, Grant Herreid, Iréne Hultman, 
Annette Jolles, Michael Korie, Bronwen MacArthur, Elijah Martinez, Lynda Paul, 
Emmanuele Phuon, Kelsey Rainwater, Nathan Roberts, Renee Robinson, Michael Theater, Dance, and Performance Studies         477
Rossmy, Brian Seibert, Dexter Singleton, Sohina Sodhu, Shilarna Stokes, Daniel 
Ulbricht.
*Member of the Executive Committee for the program.