478            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
Translation Studies Certiﬁcate
Ce
rtiﬁcate director: Marijeta Bozovic  (marijeta.bozovic@yale.edu), Slavic Languages 
and Lite
ratures; Film and Media Studies; Women's, Gender, and Sexuality Studies
As human migration and globalization alter the manner and speed of language change, 
translation has become increasingly central to the workings of the contemporary 
world. This certiﬁcate in Translation Studies promotes the interdisciplinary study 
of translation, and at the same time facilitates existing and burgeoning translation 
practices, encompassing literary, social, political, economic, legal, technological, and 
medical dimensions.
This certiﬁcate o ﬀers students a coursework-focused track to develop expertise in 
translation research and practice. 
requirements
Students must successfully complete ﬁve course credits on translation-themed topics, 
drawn from the list of approved courses posted each semester on the Translation 
S
tudies Initiative website. Other course credits may be approved by permission of the 
certiﬁcate director and the course instructor. In addition, each student must attend 
three lectures or events listed through the Translation Initiative to be awarded the 
certiﬁcate. After each lecture, students are asked to submit a brief written response to 
the lecture to the certiﬁcate director to be credited for attendance. Other translation 
activities or other events may be counted toward this requirement at the discretion of 
the director.
Of the ﬁve credits, no more than three may originate in the same department. 
Additionally, no more than two course credits may overlap in the fulﬁllment of the 
requirements of the Translation Studies certiﬁcate or of a major, a simultaneous 
degree, or another certiﬁcate; and no course credit may be applied toward the 
requirements of more than two curricular programs. For example, the same course 
credit may not be used to fulﬁll the requirements of two certiﬁcates and a major. 
Approved graduate and professional school courses may count toward the certiﬁcate.
Credit/D/Fail/uni2002No course taken Credit/D/Fail may be applied toward the requirements 
of the certiﬁcate.
Outside credit Courses taken at another institution or during an approved summer or 
term-time study abroad program may count toward the major requirements with DUS 
approval.
Declaration of Candidacy
Students must declare their intention to earn a Certiﬁcate on the 
Declare Major, 
Concentration within the Major, Certiﬁcate page on Yale Hub, as early as possible, but at 
the very latest, by the 15th of January or September in their last semester at 
Yale. Once declared, Degree Audit tracks students' progress toward completion 
of the certiﬁcate.
Summary of Requirements
Number of courses/uni20025 course credits Translation Studies Certiﬁcate         479
Distribution of courses/uni2002 Up to 3 courses in any originating department
Additional requirements/uni2002Attendance at 3 lectures sponsored by the Translation 
Initiative, each followed by a 1-page written response to the event