480            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
Urban Studies
Directors of undergraduate studies: Elihu Rubin (elihu.rubin@yale.edu) [spring 
2025]; urbanstudies.yale.edu
Urban Studies is an interdisciplinary ﬁeld grounded in the physical and social spaces 
of the city and the larger built environment. The Urban Studies major is situated 
within Yale’s liberal arts framework and draws on the broader academic context and 
expertise of the Yale School of Architecture, including the areas of urban design and 
development, urban and architectural history, urban theory and representation, 
globalization and infrastructure, transportation and mobility, heritage and preservation, 
and community-based planning. Students have the ability to chart their own course 
through this interdisciplinary ﬁeld, but the major emphasizes the following bodies of 
knowledge: history, theory, and analysis of urban form; the political economy of society 
and space; c onceptual tools and descriptive-analytical methods to understand urban 
environments; and the theory and practice of urban planning and design.
The major prepares undergraduates for a variety of future careers and ﬁelds of graduate 
study related to urban planning, design, and development. These include professional 
and practice-oriented ﬁelds such as urban planning, landscape architecture, law, 
nonproﬁt management, public policy, real estate, and architecture; as well as research-
oriented ﬁelds such as geography, sociology, anthropology, history and theory of urban 
planning, and urban and architectural history.
Requirements of the Major
See Links to the attributes indicating courses approved for Urban Studies 
major requirements.
Thirteen course credits are required for the major, including the senior requirement. 
Each student, in consultation with the director of undergraduate studies (DUS) or a 
departmental faculty adviser, bears the responsibility for designing a coherent program, 
which must include the following elements: 3 surveys; 3 methods courses; 4, 5, or 6 
electives (depending on the credit value of the courses); and a one- or two-term senior 
requirement.
Surveys/uni2002Students choose three survey courses from the following list, of which one 
URBN course is required. Surveys should be completed by the end of the second year. 
Additional approved survey courses can be searched on Yale Course Search (YC URBN 
Survey Course).
Surveys: URBN 1300 , 1101, 1100, 1102, EVST 3226, ARCH 1001
Methods courses/uni2002Students must choose an Urban Lab as one of the three required 
methods courses. The courses in the following lists introduce various methods 
of understanding and analyzing urbanism and the city. Students should consider 
completing at least two of these courses by the end of their junior year. Additional 
approved Urban Lab and Methods courses can be searched on Yale Course Search (YC 
URBN Urban Lab and YC URBN Methods Course).
Urban Lab Courses: URBN 3601 , 3602, 3603, 3604, 3605
Methods Courses: URBN 2000 , 3601, 3602, 3603, 3604, 3605, ANTH 3720 , EVST 2290Urban Studies         481
Electives/uni2002Students choose ﬁve electives if enrolling in the two-term senior 
requirement; six electives if opting for the one-term senior requirement. Each student 
is responsible for selecting their elective courses from the approved list or by petition of 
the DUS. Students who take two Urban Labs (1.5 credits each) may take 4–5 electives 
depending on the selected senior requirement. Additional approved elective courses can 
be searched on Yale Course Search (YC URBN Elective).
Credit/D/Fail/uni2002 No course taken Credit/D/Fail may be applied toward the requirements 
of the major.
Outside credit Courses taken at another institution or during an approved summer or 
te
rm-time study abroad program may count toward the major requirements with DUS 
approval.
Senior Requirement
All majors must satisfy a senior requirement undertaken during the senior year. 
Students have the option of pursuing a yearlong senior project, which includes 
URBN 4900, Senior Research Colloquium, in the fall and URBN 4910, Senior Project, 
in the spring. The senior project may be a written paper (minimum 7,500 words in 
the body of the document) or a project that could encompass a variety of media with 
permission from DUS and the adviser. The primary adviser must be a member of the 
architecture faculty. Students not choosing a yearlong project may enroll in an advanced 
seminar (URBN 4000–4910), and produce a ﬁnal paper of 6,000 words, minimum, in 
addition to existing coursework. The seminar should be selected in consultation with 
the DUS. Note that students pursuing the one-term, advanced seminar option must 
also take an additional elective.
Advising and Intent to Major
Students are encouraged to declare their intent to major by the end of their second 
year, but applications to the major are accepted on a rolling basis. The intent to major 
process includes submission of an Intent to Major form with requested materials 
followed by a meeting with the DUS to discuss the intended course of study. Schedules 
for majors must be discussed with, and approved by, the DUS in Urban Studies.
Courses in the School of Architecture/uni2002Unless otherwise indicated in the course 
descriptions, all courses in the School of Architecture are open to majors and nonmajors 
with permission of the instructor and the graduate registrar. They are not available 
for the Credit/D/Fail option. Students are admitted on the basis of their previous 
coursework and previous performance.
SUMMARY OF MAJOR REQUIREMENTS
Prerequisites None
Number of courses
 13 course credits (incl senior req)
Distribution of courses 3 surveys, incl 1 URBN course (to be completed by second 
ye
ar); 3 methods courses, one of which must be an Urban Lab; 4–6 electives, as 
speciﬁed and depending on the credit values of the courses selected
Senior requirement URBN 4900 and 4910; or adv seminar and an addtl elective482            Yale College Programs of Study 2025–2026
FACULTY ASSOCIATED WITH URBAN STUDIES
Professors Elijah Anderson (Sociology), Keller Easterling (School of 
Ar
chitecture), Jennifer Klein ( History), Marcella Nunez-Smith (School of Medicine ), 
Alan Plattus (School of Architecture), Karen Seto (School of Environment ), Helen Siu 
(Anthropology ), Jing Tsu (Comparative Literature, East Asian Languages and Literature)
Associate Professors/uni2002Laura Barraclough (American Studies), Erik Harms 
(Anthropology ), Bill Rankin (History of Science, Medicine, and Public Health), Elihu 
Rubin (
School of Architecture, American Studies)
Assistant Professors Anthony Acciavatti (Visiting) ( School of Architecture), Joyce 
Hsiang (School of Architecture), Bimal Mendis (Adjunct)(School of Architecture)
Lecturer Jay Gitlin ( History)
Critics Marta Caldeira (School of Architecture), Andrei Harwell (School of Architecture), 
Surry Schlabs (School of Architecture), Beka Sturges (School of Architecture)